Thanks.
Josh Burns, Labor's candidate in Macnamara.
Here we are at the site of Anzac railway station.
What an exciting vision for Melbourne and for Victoria to have the single biggest public transport infrastructure investment ever.
And federal Labor is really excited to be using our support to work with Dan Andrews in Victoria to give Melbourne a world-class underground railway system.
Melbourne really needs greater assistance in infrastructure.
Did you know that under the current Liberal government with all of their cuts and chaos Melbourne has been cheated and Victoria has been cheated of a fair share of national infrastructure?
Under the current government, infrastructure expenditure in Victoria has fallen to as low as 7 per cent, so 7 cents in every national dollar, go into Victoria at its lowest point.
But federal Labor's going to change that.
We want to see our big cities receiving public transport investment.
So we're going to put forward $2 billion in our first budget to assist with the timely execution of this remarkable project.
Below our feet two massive tunnels will be drilled.
7,000 people employed.
All of this in a zone with the world's busiest tram corridor happening right around us.
This will literally mean for people in Melbourne, for tens of thousands of people on the railway lines fanning out right across the massive Melbourne footprint, there'll be more places on trains.
This city is going to hum a lot better.
This is what federal Labor wants to do.
We want to have real change.
No more cuts and chaos of a divided government.
We're the party of the future in this election, not the party of the past.
We're the party who wants to see Australia have world class public transport to help be a congestion buster for our big cities.
We will work with Dan Andrews.
We will work with Annastacia Palaszczuk.
We will work with Mark McGowan.
And we'll work with other state premiers because Labor believes that if we've got better public transport that's good for jobs, that's good for liveability.
It means more time at home with a family.
I'd now like to hand over to Dan Andrews to say a few more words about this exciting partnership - a vision for Melbourne in the 2020s and the 2030s.
I think you're right that the candidate's remarks which were made were deeply offensive.
I'm not going to defend the remarks, they were shocking and stupid.
But he's also come forward and said he was 22 at the time, seven years ago.
He is mortified as he should be.
He doesn't want to cause any embarrassment and he doesn't hold those views now.
So he has apologised deeply and he certainly doesn't hold those views now.
I agree.
Stupid is stupid is stupid.
I'm not here giving the bloke a pat on the back.
But let's go to what the real contrast here is.
The Liberals have just been forced to dump another one of their extreme right wing candidates.
Yeah hang on.
Greg I'm going to do the courtesy of finishing a question.
You will get your go.
Yeah I understand the question.
What I'm saying is that this Jessica Whelan, she said what she believes now.
She said what she believes now and it reflects on what she thinks now.
What our fellow said was, he said it seven years ago when he was 22 and he's clearly regretted and apologised for it.
He understands.
He doesn't think that now, he certainly doesn't think it at all, he understands that.
The Liberal candidate, not only were these contemporary remarks but then they tried to cover it up.
They didn't put their hand up and say, no this is wrong.
They said, we got a conspiracy theory of hackers.
Federal police were going to be called in.
So the way that they've tried to cover it up reflects very poorly on the Liberal party.
This is actually the seat of Macnamara.
The train line goes through the whole of Victoria, why don't I have every Victorian Labor person here.
Come on, fair's fair.
Well let's talk about wages.
Well I'll do the second issue.
What Labor's done is we've decided that after seven years we want to increase the bulk billing incentives to pathology to stop pathology from having to decrease its bulk billing.
Now this is a government who loves to complain when Labor chooses to spend more money on health.
You know this is a government that will always find an excuse to tell you that they can't afford your health care bills.
We take a different view.
When the government says that we can't afford to spend on health what they're actually telling Australians is you don't deserve better funding for health.
So if you have a look at the policies we've outlined, be it helping keep pathology bulk billing at high numbers, that's what we do.
That's what Labor does.
After seven years, due for an increase.
But it's not just that.
When it comes to Medicare and helping people in the fight of their lives with cancer the government said it's free.
How out of touch is the government?
You know cancer makes you sick, but it shouldn't make you poor.
We want to look after pensioners.
Did you know that we're going to give a new Medicare item which will provide up to a thousand dollars every two years for pensioners to help with their dental care.
Now the government says they can't afford that.
But they can afford to give tens of billions of dollars away to big business and tax cuts, they can afford to give tens of billions of dollars away to property investors, they can afford to give tens of billions of dollars away in loopholes.
This is a government who just doesn't think that the people of Australia deserve proper health care.
In terms of wages.
Big problem in Australia under the last six years of the Liberal government is that everything has gone up except the wages.
And in many sectors you've had penalty rate cuts.
We've seen the early childhood educators underpaid for the work that they do.
We see a lot of abuse of casual labour, abuse of 457 visas.
So we think we can get wages moving.
I'll tell you I will do better than the government.
Because this government while it's been in power has presided over record low wages growth.
And the problem is that if you've got record low wages growth that has a chilling effect on the economy.
It's like putting the economy in the fridge and chilling it.
We've got no growth going on.
As a result zero percent inflation.
It means that businesses are doing it hard.
Everyone knows that three more years of this current government's cuts and chaos means that everyday Australians fall behind the pace.
So be it wages or health care we are the party you should vote for.
Vote Labor on May the 18th if you want better help with your health care.
Vote Labor on May the 18th if you want to get your wages moving.
Vote Labor on May the 18th if you think that three million pensioners and seniors health card holders deserve a fair go.
Vote Labor as well if you're one of a million Australian households whose income is less than $175,000 because we're going to provide you between $1,500 and $2,000 in additional subsidy for every child.
We will release our costings towards the end of next week.
No there isn't, but Kevin Rudd is like the whole Labor tribe.
They've all united because they know this government's got to go.
On May the 18th people have got a choice and Labor is making the case for change.
If you want to have, you know the Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison-Palmer-Hanson government, that's what you're getting if this government get re-elected.
This government hasn't made the case to give them a third chance.
All this government's delivered you is the promise of a tax cut on the never never which can only be funded by massive cuts to schools and hospitals.
Their record is one of looking after the very wealthy and doing nothing else for anyone else.
If you look at the $14 billion worth of cuts to schools, the $700 million cuts to hospitals, 400,000 pensioners having their pensions cut or losing the pension altogether, this is a government which only thinks about the top end of town, whereas we are making the case for change today and every day up to the election.
If you want real action on climate change, vote Labor.
If you are one of three million pensioners who worry about how you pay for your dental care, vote Labor.
If you're one of a million working households in this country under $175,000 and you'd like to get a subsidy between $1,500 and $2,100 per child, vote Labor.
If you are sick of not getting a wage rise but corporate profits go up and up and up and up and up, vote Labor on May the 18th.
As for Kevin Rudd campaigning, that's good, because we need to combat the Liberal lie machine in the Chinese community which is just lying every day, making up stories about a million refugees in the next 10 years or making up stories about Safe Schools.
The Liberal Party is actually offering Australians nothing at this election.
If you want to ask the Liberals what they're going to do for Australia in the next three years all they'll do is complain about us.
If you ask us what we're going to do for Australians in the next three years we've got lots of good plans for middle and working class families.
We have no plans to lower the private health insurance rebate, but what we do have is a plan to cap the fee increases.
One of the big problems is that the private health insurers have been calling the shots within the Liberal government.
I mean the Liberal government's never seen a bunch of vested interests, top end of town rent seekers that they don't give into, lie over and let them tickle them on the belly.
Private health insurance premiums have been increasing too much under the Liberals, so you know we're going to do?
We're doing what this government's too gutless to do.
We're going to stand up to the big private health insurers.
We are saying, you cannot under a Labor government for the next two years increase private health insurance premiums more than 2 per cent.
So we are going to introduce fair dinkum price control because we are the party of working people in this country.
I don't want to see private health insurance becoming a luxury item which only the super rich can afford.
We're going to rescue private health insurance by a bit of tough love.
Yes I can.
I'm going to do a forum, it's a day of action for people with disability and their carers at Moonee Valley racecourse so you'll hear what I'm going to do there.
But, the short answer is we are going to make sure that the Liberals $1.
6 billion cuts can't be repeated.
What a lazy government.
They can't get multinationals to pay their fair share of tax in Australia but they can make sure that poor people who need wheelchairs have to wait two years for a wheelchair.
It speaks volumes.
On May the 18th, if you know a family who are carers or people with disabilities, vote Labor, because when it comes to looking after people with disabilities in this country, that's more important to me than getting a tick from a vested interest property group or a vested interest private health insurance group or a bank.
You and I know when the government says it's been put aside and it never gets to Victoria, that's a cut.
I know where Melbourne is.
I know where Victoria is.
I've lived here for 50 years.
I've caught the Dandenong line.
I understand this is a cracker of a project, but I don't think the Victorian taxpayer should have to carry, to do all the heavy lifting on their own.
When you vote Labor on May the 18th in the national elections we will make sure that public transport in our cities gets some love.
Ever since Tony Abbott's time, this government, the national Liberals have been very, very shy about investing in public transport in the cities.
Some of the other money we're using though is our fantastic South East roads package which is north of a billion dollars.
So we're going to help people who live out in Berwick, who live out in the new suburbs in the south east to make sure that congestion, they don't get ignored just as the housing estates have developed.
We want to make sure they've got quality roads to go with the quality of lifestyle they want.
On the East West, we all know that there has been two state elections.
Dan's put the case to the Australian people.
And I've been over on the west side of Melbourne.
There's plenty of work going on.
If you want, if public transport and roads are what you vote on in elections you would vote Labor.
Have a look at the suburban rail loop, the airport rail link, Melbourne Metro, the roads package in south eastern Melbourne, plus what we're doing in the northern suburbs of Melbourne.
You know Melbourne and Victoria, if they care about roads and rail should be voting Labor because we've got a positive vision.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks very much Justine.
Good morning everybody.
Australia needs a change of government.
This country can't keep going along as we are without taking real action on climate change.
We see the power prices going up and up.
We're missing out on renewable jobs of the future and we're squibbing the hard decisions to give a better environment to our kids.
So today's announcement is all about further investment by Labor into real action on climate change and we want to prepare for the workforce of the future.
We're going to invest in more renewable energy jobs with the skills.
As I walked around this very clever workshop seeing the bespoke work which is being done here, answering manufacturing challenges here and also exporting to other countries.
Courageous companies like this and hard working workforces and families in north and north west Tassie need a government as innovative, as bold and as focused on the future.
This company is getting ahead because it's thinking about the future not the past.
But this company deserves a government in Canberra who's thinking about the future not the past.
Climate change is one of the big issues in this election.
We've got to get our power prices down.
We've got to start training our young people and not so young people to grab the job opportunities of the future that renewable energy provides.
And for goodness sakes, the future generations aren't going to forgive the current crop of politicians if we don't take real action on climate change right now.
I'd like to hand over to Mark Butler to talk a little bit more about a couple of our announcements, then let's talk some more.
Will you know this fellow and his report remind me of the doctors that the big tobacco companies used to roll out in the 70s and 80s to say that smoking was healthy for you.
We will file this report under P for propaganda.
It's full of wrong assumptions.
But there's a deeper issue here and I'll get Mark to supplement in a moment.
When are we finally going to put the genie of the scare campaign back in the bottle on climate change?
Australian politics is broken because we haven't actually dealt with climate change properly.
Carbon pollution is increasing under this government.
The report itself - and I haven't read it but I've seen the initial observations of it - it actually says they haven't modelled the impact of climate change and not doing anything.
This is such a flagrantly dishonest debate at the moment.
We are very committed to taking real action on climate change.
We don't believe the scary numbers.
We think they're just rubbish.
And also who paid for this report?
I don't know if you’ve found out, but who actually paid for this report?
Was it right wing think tank the Menzies Research Centre who has current Liberal MPs on the board, former Liberal MPs on the board, former heads of the Business Council and the Mining Council and mining interests?
What Sydney businessmen have helped contribute to pay for this report?
When you get a report like this you've always got to ask yourself who paid for it?
And is this for politics or is it about climate change?
I might get Mike to talk a bit further.
It shows that if you write a fairy tale you'll get a report for this Government on climate change and I just don't believe it.
We've got to call out the scare campaigns.
We've got to call out - ask yourself, and I say to Australians who hear the scary numbers coming from private vested interest commissioned reports, why do these people want you not to take action on climate change?
What are they so scared of?
You know you want to hear some real modelling, come with me to Sun Metal in Townsville where they've got a solar farm which is helping provide cheap energy, which keeps the refinery going.
Come with me to Whyalla and see the solar farm there which is powering 3,000 houses.
If you want to see the real lived experience taking action on climate change, next time you'll land in a plane over the suburbs of Australia have a look and count the number of houses where you see solar panels on the roof.
People, we've got to call out the superstition.
We've got to call out the fear.
The problem is that this government after six years is incapable of lowering your energy prices and incapable of doing anything on climate change.
They're split down the middle.
We see the tendrils of influence of the right wing extremists within the Liberal Party and the National Party.
For whatever reason they've got them stuck in the cul de sac of history.
They don't want to move on climate change.
But it wouldn't matter except they're the Government of Australia.
The reason why families are paying more in electricity prices right now because this government can't move forward on energy policy.
The reason why we're handing on a more polluted environment to our kids is because this government can't change its ways.
We need real change in Australia.
We need to get the energy prices down.
We need to unlock the potential of this company and 10,000 companies like it to export to the rest of the world.
We need to do more on climate change.
Here's a prediction and I think it makes pretty good sense.
Three more years of this government like the last six, it'll be even more expensive to fix up the damage of climate change in three years if we don't start now.
No.
No, no, no Tim, wrong.
First of all,  I'll tell you who's on our side of the ledger.
Just about every scientist in the world.
APRA, the RBA, Citibank.
Citibank is not a nest of communists although the way this government's going they probably will call them that soon.
They have to write a note for the market, for their clients.
It has to be up to an ASX level of compliance.
Citibank doesn't have any skin in the game whether Liberal or Labor win the next election.
It's not a biased, you know opinion for rent that we're seeing in this latest report.
They're just telling it straight.
And again let me return to the lived experience of Australians.
What we've seen in the last six years under the Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison-Palmer-Hanson Government is we're seeing power prices have gone up.
That's just a fact.
You don't need an expert.
Just go and ask anyone who pays electricity in this country.
Now it would be the triumph of hope over experience to give these climate denying cave dwellers another three years in business when they clearly failed in the last six years.
Labor's got a real choice for change.
When people go and vote between now and the election on May the 18th, there is a real choice.
If you're happy that your power bills are going up, if you're happy that nothing's happening on climate change except more carbon is being polluted, if you're happy to miss out on renewable energy jobs then you probably like more of the same.
But if you think that politics is broken, if you think the climate deniers need a good kick up the back pants, just a good kick up the backside to just get on and do something, vote Labor at the next election.
No, I don't think we will actually.
I think more people - and I was at the debate too - I think more people actually were unhappy that the government is not advocating anything serious on climate change.
Now I get that in the election - and this is why you in the media play such an important role interpreting what you hear, reporting what you hear - I get that the government is trying to, is doing a cyclonic scare campaign on climate change.
But I actually think the people of Australia are a bit over being told to be scared of the future.
If this government finds the future too hard they should get out of the way and have a government who is not scared of the future.
The reality is the single greatest reason why energy prices have gone up in Australia is there's just a lack of energy policy.
And anyone who thinks this government after 13 energy policies is miraculously going to fix their internal chaos and division, you know they're dreaming as they say.
Well Mark is here and he can speak for himself.
But remember, international permits, we've heard the scare campaign from the government.
They think it's a bad idea.
They just forgot to check with the Business Council and all the other employer groups that say it's a good idea.
We believe in least cost abatement, but Mark can explain what he said.
Mark's champing at the bit to answer this.
I'll just go first though.
First of all in your question you recognise the lie that the government have been saying.
Because the government said - I think they let poor old Michaela Cash loose out of witness protection for a moment, then they realised that mistake and put her back under watch.
But I think she said we're going to take your utes off people.
The Australian newspaper has now confirmed that we're not going to mandatorily take people's utes off them, so I thank you for clearing that up.
So let's go to the bigger issue.
But in all seriousness we saw the government run that scare campaign remember?
That you know you're going to lose your ute.
I mean what rubbish - rubbish, rubbish, rubbish.
Now in terms of EVs we have said that we want to put in charger stations so people in the bush can also access new technology.
We've also said that in government purchasing that we would like to start orienting the purchase of the car fleet to electric vehicles.
But I might get Mark to further answer this.
No.
Listen, no, the short answer - no.
The longer answer is this.
Our early childhood educators are underpaid.
They are the first adults to which we entrust our kids outside the family unit.
Did you know that out of 96 occupations childcare workers childhood, early childhood educators, their pay level comes in at 92?
That's hopeless.
Another fact which I'm going to keep banging on about is that 96 per cent of the industry are women.
If it was an industry which is 96 per cent men it wouldn't be as low paid.
So what we have looked at is what are the options to give these important people a better go.
Ask any parent.
Some of you or maybe some of you have got family who are early childhood educators, there is plenty of them in Australia.
We know they're underpaid, so what's the solution?
You either just let them be underpaid.
Well that's intolerable isn't it?
Why should we rely on a bunch of workers to sacrifice themselves just so the rest of us can have, not pay these people what they're meant to.
The second option is, of course, you could ask parents to pay a lot more.
But under this government childcare has been such a debacle, hasn't it?
Childcare costs have gone up and up and up.
So that's not an option to ask parents to pay more.
You could ask all of the not for profit and for profit providers just to miraculously find the money in the system, but it's not there.
So we've come up with the best option.
Which is we will help contribute to the wages of early childhood educators.
It won't be allocated based on their industrial instruments or enterprise agreements or union membership.
So that's another Government scare campaign we can put in the bin along with the utes and the rest of the stuff they come up with.
But it really comes down to this and this is really what I want to address my remarks to the Australian people.
Child care is important.
A lot of two income families a lot of women returning to work are caught in a vicious cycle where they've got to go to work to pay for the childcare.
But the childcare is so expensive that really they're working for nothing.
So what we've come up with is I think a pretty neat solution which gives a fair go to a million Australian households.
Specifically, if you earn up to $68,000 in your household we'll pay for 100 per cent of the childcare.
If you earn between $68,000 and $100,000 we'll pay up to 85 per cent.
If you earn between $100,000 and $174,000 as total household income we'll contribute between 85 and 60 per cent subsidy.
What this means practically, and when people go to make a choice to vote between now and the election, what it means is that if you've got two kids in childcare, say your household incomes around 100K or maybe just a bit north of it, what you'll be getting is in excess of $3,000 childcare fee relief.
When you add that on top of what we're doing with lowering people's taxes, about 5K extra a year.
This is how we get a strong economy working for middle and working class people.
And I don't think anyone seriously thinks we shouldn't give early childhood educators a better deal.
It's all about priorities isn't it.
This government wants to give $77 billion to the top three per cent of income earners.
I'd just like to give a better pay rise to 140,000 [100,000] childcare workers.
Yeah, I will.
I think it's a good policy and we can match it.
We can also match it because frankly we're making the reform decisions about winding back unsustainable subsidies at the top end.
This is the way politics should be.
I'm not a hater.
This government will only ever have bad things to say about Labor.
I adopt a different view.
It's not about me, Mr Morrison, Labor or Liberal exclusively.
It's about what I'm going to do for you, Australian families, Australian voters, Australians who need to use our health care system.
So yep, tick.
But what I would like Mr Morrison to do is match me on pension and dental care.
What we're going to do is provide 2.
6 million pensioners, who always get forgotten in elections, nearly 400,000 Commonwealth seniors health card holders - so 3 million people in all, we're going to provide for the first time, nationally across the board a voucher under Medicare $1,000 dollars bulk billed to contribute towards their dental care every two years.
See the difference is I can afford to match a good health idea from the government because health's my number one priority.
But he can't match my good ideas for pensioners and health because he's too busy defending properties, you know subsidies for the people buying their fifth and sixth property and being a soft touch on multinationals.
No, I don't think that is accurate.
I haven't seen their costings.
We'll release all our costings before the election.
But as I understand in the first four years in terms of the help we're going to give early childhood educators it's about $550 million and in terms of what we're doing for childcare relief for Australian families that's about $4 billion.
Again, you know when this government says we can't afford to look after childcare subsidies what they're saying to a million Australian families is you don't deserve it.
When this government says we can't afford to look after early childhood educators and pay them properly, what they're saying to them is you don't deserve it.
This is a government who for the last three years could find $80 billion to give away to big business.
This is a government who could find $77 billion dollars - even they haven't told us how they're going to pay for it, the tricky little roosters - in terms of tax cuts for the top end.
But when it comes to early childhood educators, "Oh, we don't have the money.
" When it comes to better subsidies for childcare for a million Aussie households, "Don't bother us, we don't have the money."
Why is it this government says to millions of everyday people, to the pensioners with dental care, we can't afford that.
What they're really saying is you don't deserve it.
No.
What I say actually is that if we leave the problem of climate change any longer it's going to cost more to fix it.
But I'll let Mark have the last word because he's been doing such a good job on our policy.
Guys the factory is going to need to get back to work but it's been good fun.
Thank you.
No worries Leigh.
Well, I was in Whyalla today, talking to the people who run OneSteel and they made it clear that they're investing in more renewable energy.
So there is a cost to investing in new technology but they're absolutely convinced that the only way we will keep making steel in Australia is by investing in renewable energy.
I had the same discussion up at Sun Metals in zinc in Townsville, or indeed let's just talk to the two million Australian householders who have invested in solar power.
There is an initial cost and depending on the deals they can get, but most people who go to solar on households they don't go back, do they?
It won't have a negative effect on economic growth.
In fact, most of the mainstream modelling shows that our economy will continue to grow.
The problem with what you're saying is that you assume that there's no cost to doing nothing, and there is.
That's why Australians wants real change at this election.
They're sick of doing nothing.
Well, my absolute conviction and belief, is that if we don't change, then the cost will be far greater than any initial investments.
If you're asking me to specify what a particular company in a particular factory will have to do, I can't do that, nor could you, nor can the Government.
Let's be fair here, Leigh.
Let’s be fair.
I'm not going to get caught up in this Government came of gotcha when you have got to invent a number which you can't possibly.
There's 250 companies caught by our safeguards mechanism, the same safeguard mechanism the current government applies to 120, each company will respond differently.
You and I know that the reason why the government's trying to focus on how much it might cost to put in a new renewable energy system is that they're trying to distract from the fact they have no climate change policy.
It's so dishonest this debate.
It is so dishonest -
Sorry, I didn't pluck that out of nowhere.
That was the Paris Agreement.
That's what the scientists tell us.
I'm not choosing it, the scientists say it.
It's what we've got to do to stop the planet getting warmer.
Let's go to Citibank, they're an internationally reputable bank.
They say that the consequences in terms of cost, of policies on climate change like ours are immaterial.
So I am saying to you very clearly that both in the short term and the long term, the cost of not acting on climate change is far worse than acting on climate change.
And, again, let's, when you talk about cost, what's the cost to the environment?
The cost is in not acting.
When you talk about the cost to business, the reality is, that lots of businesses are so far ahead of government they're already investing.
This is the problem with this short-term vacuous government who has no policies in the election other than to say they're not Labor.
Australian people and business are so far ahead of the political debate, you must be bored by the Government's rhetoric which simply wants to you know say we can't do this and we can't do that.
The rest of the world is so far ahead of us it's embarrassing.
I'd say that my view on this mine is going to be based on the best science, whether or not it stacks up, and if it is, if it stacks up and passes all the scientific tests, I won't engage in sovereign risk.
So in other words we won't arbitrarily upend things.
But what I'll also say to that woman miner in central Queensland, is that if you're a labour hire miner, not a direct employee, I'll make sure you get paid the same as the direct employee.
If you're a casual or on a fixed term contract I'll make sure you get a fairer go.
Okay sure.
By all means.
I think you'd be fair enough to acknowledge that then, Adani didn't get the finance but now they appear to have got the finance.
The other thing of course back then is they were talking about a 60 million tonne mine with 10,000 jobs.
Now the promises have shrunk to a 10 million tonne mine.
In terms of the commercial high jump bar, yeah they've passed that.
Well that's going to be a matter for the state and federal regulators isn't it.
I'd say that's wrong.
Our position's very clear.
Got to stack up commercially.
Got to stack up scientifically.
Got to stack up according to the law and we won't engage in sovereign risk.
If we want to talk about conflicting positions, let's be even handed here, Leigh.
You have got all these Scott Morrison Liberals down in Melbourne and Sydney, they call themselves "modern Liberals", and you've got the LNP in Queensland with a different view.
You have the civil war between Matt Canavan and Josh Frydenberg about where poor old Melissa Price was going to finally.
Well he already is and this is the real heart of the issue.
When you get an income tax credit, when you haven't paid income tax, it's a gift from the Government.
You're already on the public purse.
But the criteria by which you get this money is that you just happen to own shares.
Now Mr Morrison has been most dishonest in this.
Where he says we're coming for people's savings.
No, we're not.
And then he's been most dishonest and saying somehow this is a tax.
What currently happens - and I have people come up to me all over Australia who say, really, I mean seriously can you believe it Leigh, when you don't pay income tax you get a tax credit?
See what the Liberals don't say to you is that when you get this dividend income, you own shares, you get the interest or the dividend from the shares, it's tax-free.
But what this government does and previous governments have done it on both sides, is not only do you get the income tax free, you then get a 30 percent top-up from the government, it's a government payment.
Now, it's not illegal and it's not immoral.
But did you know Leigh that this generous gift going to some people purely on the basis they get dividends from shares and don't pay tax, it's costing $6 billion a year, nearly $8 billion a year in the very near future.
It is eating the Budget and it's just a gift.
It won't have an appreciable impact on the price of housing.
Well what we want to do is create a level playing field, first of all.
Why should a pair of first-home buyers, you know supported by their parents, they could be in their late 20s, early 30s.
They go to bid for a house, get the deposit together, they've got to look at getting the stamp duty together, it's a lot more expensive than it was 20 years ago.
And then what happens is they're bidding against someone in the crowd who is getting a taxpayer subsidy in the form of negative gearing.
It's not fair and the other thing is this, this nation can't afford to keep giving away money to property investors to make losses on property.
Now we are grandfathering it, though so no-one will be affected who is currently invested under these laws it's prospective.
Well, that's all happened under the current government and that's at the heart of this election.
This government loves to talk about a strong economy but strong for who?
Corporate profits are up 39 per cent but wages are only up 5 per cent.
First-home buyers find it hard to get in the market, but if you're a property investor buying your sixth or seventh property, this Government gives you a subsidy.
Is that really fair?
I mean the heart of the problem in Australia at the moment is that we don't have any economic confidence.
Wages are stagnating, cost of living is going up.
What we have is that capital in this country is taxed very lightly but income is taxed very heavily.
It's not fair on our young people, it's not fair on our pensioners, it's not fair on people on fixed incomes.
Sorry just to correct, when you say controversial, some in the property industry don't like negative gearing changes but a lot of people actually do like it.
Well, I don't accept your assumption it's less enticing.
It's preferentially taxed on the way in.
So in other words, the income you pay into superannuation up to a certain level is still taxed below income you take in your daily pay packet.
So it is preferentially taxed on the way in and preferentially or more favourably taxed while it's in the superannuation.
So I don't accept the characterisation it's less interesting.
What has happened though, is we've got to make sure that the function of superannuation is to make sure that people have money for their retirement.
It's not about making multimillionaires, multi-multimillionaires is it?
Leigh, you know there's no plans for 60 per cent or indeed 50 per cent, but I agree that what we need to do is eventually lighten the burden of income tax across all the levels.
But to be fair, we already are offering 3.
6 million Australians lower income tax at the bottom end.
We've matched, we were ahead of the Government until the last budget and they basically matched our proposal for 10 million wage earners so when it comes to income tax, we are doing what we think is sensible.
But the way which we also need to go in this country is not fund tax cuts on the never-never like this government is currently promising in five years’ time and the only way they can fund it is if they cut services.
See this is one of the big numbers in this election.
Don't worry about what a business has to do in terms of their decisions which they control.
This is something Mr Morrison controls.
Did you know Leigh, that he's handing $77 billion back over the next 10 years to the top tier of income earners?
So a millionaire is getting $11,000 in Scott Morrison's land a year - yet someone on a much more modest income is only getting $11 a week tax cut - it's not fair.
First of all, when it comes to community sector, there was some wage improvement made for them when Labor was last in power.
When it comes to aged care, let's see what the Royal Commission does.
But there are unique features of the early childhood education industry.
First of all, if you look at 96 different occupations in Australia, it ranks 92nd- that's 92nd bottom, not 92nd top.
What we are relying on is these people are the first people that we trust our kids to outside the family home.
We rely on them to teach our kids to learn.
And also it's 96 per cent feminised.
In other words -
That's right.
No.
Let's go to that.
First of all, if we agree - and you were generous enough to observe that everyone knows that early childhood educators are both important and underpaid.
There's four options we've got.
One, we just ask them to keep working for bugger all.
Well, I don't think that's an option.
So two, we can ask the parents to pay more.
I don't think that's an option because child care is already horrendously expensive.
In fact, we're going to provide $2,000 per family, in some cases $1,500 per-family per-child and others.
But the parents shouldn't be asked to necessarily pay the whole tariff, should they?
We could ask the providers and it's a hybrid industry; there's not-for-profit and for-profit operators but they're operating on increasingly tight margins.
Or, the alternative is the Government recognises this is an important sector, it recognises that we shouldn't be asking parents to pay more.
So we should be able to find some scarce resources to help pay the adults who are educating our kids, who have been sorely neglected.
Now, this is not our wages policy for everyone else.
You said, why this sector and what will you do for everyone else?
There are plenty of levers if you're a fair dinkum government where we can help have real change to help working people get back on top.
No, that wouldn't be right.
What we want to do is have real change, because, frankly, more of the same under this government isn't good enough for Australians -
Perhaps if you bear with me for a moment, I'll answer your question.
First of all, we are advocating for real change.
Everywhere I go in Australia, people are sick of a lack of vision.
Insufferably boring, culturally hegemonic, and profoundly ugly.
As the old adage goes, you can't polish a turd.
But you can sprinkle plenty of CGI and countless close-ups of Keanu Reeves looking morose onto it.
This botched vision accepts the warrior's nobility at face value and sees the story merely as a springboard for high-flying action and CGI special effects.
I have the horrible feeling that in cold print that sounds a lot livelier than it is.
In practice, it plays like an overlong round of Whose Line Is It Anyway?
where all the participants are stoned.
All laurels eventually become resting grounds, and with Coffee and Cigarettes, Jim Jarmusch rides his own coattails, with none of the panache that defined his earlier work.
.
an anthology of curiosities, some more curious than others, wound around a diverse cast paired off for random ramblings over caffeine and nicotine.
Curious collection of shorts will bore most kids.
Independent filmmaking grandfather Jim Jarmusch conceives the laziest and most tiring movie of his career with a series of vignettes calculated around celebrities talking over coffee and cigarettes.
Bitingly witty and fun.
Jarmusch continues to be one of the most intriguing and compelling filmmakers of the age.
.
a brilliant examination of the nature of the modern encounter.
A little less than half of the film worked for me, which cannot justify a recommendation.
Often gorgeous and poetic film.
No matter how respected a celebrity is, watching him or her jabber about caffeine's stimulative power is not revealing.
Eleven smart breaks from everyday reality.
Coffee and Cigarettes feels thin and slight at times.
But at its best, the movie achieves the charm and delight that underscores Jarmusch's best work
Arranged in short episodes, each composed entirely of awkward and embarassed conversation between midlevel celebs, Coffee and Cigarettes entertains fitfully.
Falls flat as often as it makes magic, the cumulative effect as comforting as a night spent at your coffee shop taking in humanity's endlessly colourful social exchanges.
A caffeinated exercise in nonsequitur metaphysics.
Coffee and Cigarettes will either entertain or madden you.
Maybe both.
Embarrassingly lopsided between the evocative talents of its starry cast and crew members and the sheer banality of what Jarmusch has actually invited them to participate in.
It's endearing, plotless and strange.
Ordinary people don't generally go for Jarmusch's quirky films, and while this won't earn him a huge mainstream audience, it is accessible in a harmless, unpretentious way.
The segments are uneven, some so wispy they all but evaporate off the screen, but the ones that work prove once again that Jarmusch is one of the most dryly amusing, smartest and original independent filmmakers around.
What unites everything is Jarmusch's playful, hang-dog absurdism.
By Jarmusch's own previously set standards in such films as Stranger Than Paradise, Ghost Dog, and Dead Man, Coffee and Cigarettes serves up a weak brew.
A black-and-white novelty that plays like a directing-class exercise, you take your good with your bad with this one.
Jarmusch concocts a comedic anthology that's calculated, arbitrary and inconsistent -- and so hilarious when it works that you'll forget any regrets before the last cup is downed.
While the collection of vignettes offers a few great pleasures, in the context of Jim Jarmusch's oeuvre, it is slight.
As with any collection of shorts, some work better than others.
Here, though, none is a failure and a few are fabulous.
An oddball tribute to the art of conversation -- you know, just hanging out and talking with friends.
I came out of the theater as refreshed as if I were coming out of a coffeehouse.
Talk, mood and feel dominate as action fades into the background.
The air is filled with the sting of smoke, buttressed by the heavy smell of a dark brew.
The film is a series of scenes, skits, episodes, that show two or sometimes three people smoking and sipping and conversing, usually in grungy places and usually improvising -- at least that's the intended impression.
The vignettes have the pleasant cumulative effect of making us slow down to smell the coffee.
As infuriating and inconsistent as a film can get.
Some of its scenes are quite dull and dry, yet others are fascinating and funny.
And others still are just head-scratchingly weird.
Bill Murray evokes a few guffaws in one skit here, but other segments fail to elicit much interest or laughter.
It is decaffeinated to the point of paralysis, which is the opposite reaction the stimulants in question typically produce.
Star appeal aside, I needed a cup of joe to get through this one.
A hit-or-miss movie.
Plays like a group of actors giving their best effort for ten minutes or so in order to win some coveted role.
Jarmusch missed his mark; trying to present simple, non-dramatic moments but using celebrities
The work of a filmmaker so convinced of his own hipness and secure in his cult status that he needn't concern himself with such niceties as clever writing.
The films have been exhibited over the years at festivals and museums but, viewed together, they cohere surprisingly well.
It's the rare chance to glimpse the doodles of an auteur.
An irresistible idea results in a movie as hazy and sometimes as irritating as cigarette smoke.
At least three of the spots make the hour and a half worthwhile through an addicting blend of hilarity and beauty.
Sometimes movies tire us by trying too relentlessly to pound us with their brilliance and energy.
Here is a movie pitched at about the energy level of a coffee break.
The short form looks like a genuine alternative in Jarmusch's hands because of what he does with it.
Though Coffee and Cigarettes provokes the occasional buzz, it is really just a respite from any serious business [Jarmusch] may have planned, or may be putting off.
You have to revisit that record time after time to appreciate the concept, to figure it out, to admire it, to groove on it, to get it.
They did manage to achieve the near-impossible: to show all that coffee drinking without a single Starbucks, but that certainly doesn't qualify as entertainment.
[T]here is a refreshing rough-and-tumble energy to the films, even the ones that don't fully gel.
It has the sad, goofy charm of a silent comedy with Buster Keaton, a Jarmusch favorite, with passive-aggressive hits and flashes of barely contained antagonism.
Although this talky collection of black-and-white films from Jim Jarmusch.
.
has the potential to drive anyone into the lobby, it rewards those who are patient.
Although it flat-lines repeatedly in episodes that feel like improvised acting exercises, the film is more than intermittently amusing and occasionally hilarious.
The draggy ones make you restless while the best ones, like the movie's title ingredients, provide a buzz that doesn't last long enough.
Brilliant when it's working and dull as dishwater when it's not.
Coffee and Cigarettes will attract fans of Jim Jarmusch's quirky film style and offbeat humor.
An anthology of curiosities, some more curious than others.
An amusing selection of vignettes.
Nearly all are almost painfully self-conscious as the actors strain for the hip brand of improvised spontaneity that is usually guaranteed by a Jarmusch production.
Jarmusch demonstrates once again why he is the sultan of strange encounters.
There are few things more boring than cool.
Cool keeps to itself; cool doesn't reveal itself.
For cool to be cool, it has to be part of a larger story.
Here it's not.
Things pick up with the latter pieces, which were shot independently of any ongoing Jarmusch production and consequently feel less like outtakes, afterthoughts.
It's all weird.
It's often humourous.
It can be a tad precious but it's mostly very engaging.
Expect a map, and you'll be sorely disappointed.
Work to make one, and you'll be happily addicted.
Jarmusch has aged into a hipster of a sly, vulnerable vintage.
Though Jarmusch is fond of deflecting gestalt reads of his films individually and collectively, make no mistake that there is a meticulous structure.
It is way cool -- and funny -- in ways that more expensive comedies trying harder rarely are.
The film begins on a comparative high note with Roberto Benigni and Steven Wright as two good-natured screwballs, and it ends with a lyrically poignant epiphany with Bill Rice and the once-impish Taylor Mead.
Discussing his innovative combinations of alternative medicine and music, RZA provides a clever gloss on his own numerologizing and Eastern philosophizing.
A doodle on the notepad of a major filmmaker -- sort of a charming stopgap between bigger and better Jarmusch pictures.
He obsessively contrives his characters and situations to work toward something -- a point, a message, a statement.
The movie abounds in stellar moments.
From one scene to the next, you never know what to expect, and that's thrilling.
those who remain patient through the film's several dry spells will be richly rewarded in the end stretch
The last two skits are the best; the first features Bill Murray, RZA, and GZA, and the second stage actors Bill Rice and Taylor Mead.
Feel so haphazardly conceived and slapped together that one wonders for whom this compilation was made.
While sometimes evocative, they don't add up to a satisfying movie any more than, as several characters are cautioned, coffee and cigarettes constitute a healthy lunch.
Despite glimmers of wit and a hipper-than-thou cast, it's painstakingly smug, and smaller than the sum of its parts.
Flat and uninspired.
In a world where even the independent filmmakers are all starting to look alike, it's a pleasure to welcome back the one-of-a-kind eccentricities of a true original.
A couple of the sketches in the middle drag lifelessly, but the best ones -- usually revolving around a sharp satire of celebrity -- buoy the whole.
Nine of the shorts are instantly forgettable, two are wryly amusing and one is a knockout.
This is a film for people who want something more than predictable entertainment.
It's for people who love to watch people.
While a few are touched by brilliance and a few more are mildly amusing, others provide ample opportunity for leaving the theater to buy popcorn or take a coffee break.
There is art here, and amusement to be had.
But most of it is of an arch and trifling nature, as lasting as a chemical rush and ephemeral as smoke.
At best, an interesting idea that seems to get lost in the cigarette smoke
May inspire a shrug from most viewers, but it has lingered with me, growing sillier and more charming each time I think about it.
It's like a showcase for actors to be seen by agents and casting directors, except this ensemble is already made of stars and celebrities.
Eleven slices of comedy heaven.
Of the twelve shorts, there's really only three that are good and a few that are passable.
The other half are uninteresting, poor, and at times, incredibly painful to watch.
This delightful confection of short vignettes centered around java and smoking offers a whimsical glimpse of American envy, addiction, humor and pop culture.
It's a slow burn at times, but in the end, it's as satisfying as a good cup of, well, you know what.
Has a student film quality in its conception and realization
Jim Jarmusch's anthology of minor-key vignettes is a celebration of caffeine, nicotine and the indolent pleasure of sitting around and consuming them.
Some are weak, some are superb.
.
but they get better as they go along, ending with the most understated and touching of all, featuring Taylor Mead and Bill Rice as cultural rebels who've outlived their rebellions.
It's worth fidgeting through the mediocre stuff to get to three good pieces.
Jarmusch the sly formalist, it seems, has become a virtuoso of the interpersonal duet.
Subdued when it should be overblown and worthwhile when it should be a trifle.
Never more or less than what it appears to be, the film is a slow honky-tonk thud-beat, only intermittently punctuated by a joke or idea.
A series of vignettes, mostly unworkable.
thoughtfully observes the human compulsion to connect via conversation in all its glorious absurdity
Most successful are the mini-comedies with a loose punchline, while others barely qualify as character sketches.
Sure, it's just two or three people bonding over the twin addictions of the title.
But Jarmusch makes it a feast that plays like a haunting concept album.
The short films in this collection are dreamily affecting curiosities, stilted and just enough off-kilter to keep the viewer attentive.
After aimless improv with Benigni and Waits, a binary appearance by Cate Blanchett shows us what the term "screen star" means.
Her sample reel is tops.
apt to provide a slight, delectable buzz but little nutritional value
Alas, Coffee and Cigarettes is more fun to reminisce about afterwards than it is to endure.
Most of the shorts, despite the star power on tap, are negligible.
A cookie cutter creation, churned out for an existing fan base and little else.
Frankie Faison comes the closest to Vonnegut's spirit in his bold caricature of the Black Fuehrer of Harlem.
Director Keith Gordon emphasizes the speeches more than other issues, and his otherwise thoughtful movie needlessly romanticizes hate.
Nick Nolte is excellent in Keith Gordon's ambitious but flawed adaptation of Vonnegut's fascinating novel.
Surprisingly good Vonnegut adaptation
Helps us to see that there is no escaping the burdens of living in a political world.
A serious drama that is also funny without crossing into burlesque.
Wonderfully mysterious and emotionally draining.
Woo's signature visual ballistics and predilection for highly wrought melodrama of the kind Douglas Sirk might be proud are imprinted on virtually every frame
Still a fun movie even if it doesn't match the high standards of the rest of the series thanks to Woo bringing his trademark over the top action sequences.
Good thrill ride of a movie for teens and older.
This will go down on my list as the better sequels.
Woo lays on his own particular high-octane stylishness so thick the results edge perilously toward self-parody.
Here, Woo just seems to fall back on slow-mo whenever he gets bored, which apparently is often.
For all my profound reservations about the whole project, I wound up liking it more, or, at least disliking it less, than I had anticipated.
Thandie Newton is the biggest reason.
Woo's hysterically hyper visuals and boytoy gimmickry can't camouflage the emptiness of the enterprise.
It doesn't matter how many extra months the director spends creating impressive action scenes.
If the audience is not emotionally invested in the fate of the heroes, no amount of explosions will make them care.
The makers don't go out of their way to make this original in any way, but the quality comes through.
This sequel seems afraid of confusing people, so much so that it dumbs down the plot to an insulting level.
A more coherent and romantic script.
Rather than a groundbreaking piece of new gadgetry, this thriller is like an old, well-oiled machine.
Woo outwits, outgadgets, outstunts and outdirects the original with one hand tied behind his back.
Fans of straight action/adventure may enjoy this film; fans of TV's Mission: Impossible may not recognize it.
Despite Cruise's attempts here to be Byronic, there's something strenuous about his soulfulness; he turns everything, even repose, into calisthenics.
By any reasonable measure Mission: Impossible II is a successful action-adventure film.
God bless John Woo.
It's fun.
It's laughable.
It has moments of excitement, moments of sheer idiocy and moments of sheer idiotic excitement.
Everything has fallen into place for an action megathriller that should please everyone except those still smarting over the Jim Phelps betrayal.
A strained sequel to a feature rip-off of an old television show with a stealable theme song.
On screen and off, no one's getting marks for originality here.
If not the worst movie of the year, the most insulting and infuriating.
Capraesque.
Hitchcockian.
Add Wootastic to the Lexicon.
The crashes, action sequences and effects are all accomplished pretty much seamlessly and professionally though one criticism of this movie is overabundance.
Those hoping for a solid flick using the full talents of people like Woo, Cruise, Rhames, etc.
will sadly be disappointed.
How the mighty have fallen.
This is the action movie of the year, maybe the best in several years.
It is trying to be the next Bond-type franchise series and if the next one is anywhere near this good, it may succeed.
If Mr.
Cruise peeled off his face and turned out to have been Chow Yun Fat all along, the picture might be saved.
Woo is in fine form.
Isn't bad as summer action fare goes.
There are graceful Woo touches even outside the action scenes, like the swaying of sheep as a helicopter buzzes their pen in the Outback.
But it's not enough to get over the blandness.
It's eye candy that detonates.
A terrific thrill ride of a movie.
at times he gets carried away, still true, Woo is cool.
This mission would have been next to impossible without him.
Without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses.
Where Cruise's deference helped elevate his previous two films to artistic heights, his egotism has deflated his latest.
The action and the intended-to-be-graceful moments are more silly than stunning, prompting more laughter than applause.
The problems here can be summed up thus: 'Produced by Tom Cruise.
'
As a complete film, it's not as great as one would hope and can't help but come off as not much more than a revved up, but nonetheless, mediocre Bond wannabe.
Action fans will get a kick out of it.
Mark this one as strictly for the testosterone set.
A vaguely absurd epidemiological thriller filled with elaborately superfluous setups and shamelessly stale James Bond riffs.
Quite simply, Woo is to action what Fred Astaire was to dance and John Wayne was to winning the West.
Nobody does it better.
The movie is good for its minimal escapism, but little more.
Old-fashioned entertainment liberally coated with flair, style and an explosion of action.
It's still entertaining and fun, in a check-your-brain-at-the-box-office kind of way.
Second-string Woo.
An effective spectacle of violence.
A thoroughbred racehorse of a movie: sleek, fast, graceful and utterly devoid of intellectual content.
Breezy, breathless, brainless fun.
Trust me, this is the real thing.
We can finally put the aging James Bond to rest.
He's been replaced as cinema's best spy by Ethan Hunt of the Mission: Impossible films.
An utter disappointment and a delusion of a film.
Stay away -- far away.
Loud, technically proficient, very expensive, and pretty much soulless.
The film continually halts the action to repeat the plot to us, sometimes word for word.
Instead of being the next great John Woo masterpiece, it is yet another in the growing roster of action flicks that merely seem to reek of his influence.
John Woo takes over the director's reins this time, bringing his accomplished visual flair to the proceedings.
Defiantly brainless, but it's still big-time eye candy.
Just like with the first film, the action sequences are stronger than the actual story.
The movie as a whole is a leap backwards, assembled out of a story as thin as noodles, and stunts so overproduced and bloated that they leave us staring on in disbelief.
An overload of non-stop, gravity-defying action sequences.
This flick has little intrigue to tie it to its namesake and it comes off more like a very expensive John Woo spoof.
Dull, routine, and not much fun.
Kimball's work is always appealing to the eye yet never too noticeable so as to draw attention away from the movie's plot.
A dizzyingly enjoyable retro rollercoaster.
Brains will be checked at the door; a good time will be had by some.
The sequel has exposition to spare, but it resembles someone talking to a person who doesn't speak their language and thinks he can make them understand by talking louder and slower.
Entertaining in its own wacky way.
Woo beats Brian De Palma's direction of M:I all to heck.
The plot lacks the deftness of the first film.
The script, by Robert Towne isn't just coherent, it's also occasionally funny in self-referential ways.
The movie plays better than its predecessor to audiences that are not turned off by human emotions.
Once again, so many talented, smart, wealthy people are selling the slam-bam of sadism and an idiotic plot that could be the senile fantasy of Klaus Barbie.
Any minute now, it'll stand up and pull off its mask and voice chip and be revealed for what it truly is: a rejected Bond script.
Kimball's work is always appealing to the eye yet never too noticeable so as to draw attention away from the movie's plot.
A few nice moments does not a movie make.
The bottom line is that it delivers all the excitement and adventure it promises.
Even the most spectacular things Woo unleashes here feel strangely impersonal.
The action sequences are truly breathtaking, and Woo's attention to detail pays off in a film where computer keystrokes are as vital as huge explosions.
Cruise has hit his stride as an action hero with such confidence that he can completely take over any scene the script requires him to.
[John Woo] sacrifices logic and narrative coherence with less hesitation than one of his villains would display in shooting an accomplice to avoid apprehension.
To his credit, Woo milks every last ounce of poetry from this mission, filling out Robert Towne's anemic script with his trademark doves, slo-mo acrobatics, and double-fisted gunplay.
Woo is a singularly graceful filmmaker, a true believer in the power of elegant stunt choreography and the infinite allure of the human face.
Had there not been a Battlefield Earth I'd say this was the biggest turkey of the summer.
Mission: Impossible looks poised to take over as the spy series moviegoers can get excited about.
Check your brains at the popcorn stand and hang on for a spectacular ride.
If you've ever wished that a really good action director -- John Woo, say -- would make a James Bond film, you can stop wishing.
Cruise makes a convincing hero.
Ends up being just another schlock fest with high speed hi-jinx and more stunts than anybody should ever throw money at.
A very good summer movie.
I generally don't like my action movies so action-free.
A disappointing foray, a generic piece of very expensive filmmaking that lacks the James Bond wit and eclat while at the same time highlights a romance that is as sexless as it is inconceivable.
A coy and hollow parody.
.
yet another routine action thriller designed to showcase the star appeal of Tom Cruise.
Woo is not able to make the action scenes believable or enjoyable.
A sleek, stylistic adventure thriller, a fun-filled popcorn picture that will not self-destruct.
An extremely entertaining vehicle, a testosterone-filled escape.
It's a slam-bang way to begin the summer.
Anyone who's followed Woo's career knows he's better than this material.
The silliest movie you'll see this summer.
What makes it so haunting is the sensitivity to its lead characters and their unusual plight.
Shares some themes with Lynch's The Elephant Man.
The Polish brothers make an auspicous debut, and establish a tone -- like it or not, they've delivered on it since then.
Beautiful, hypnotic film about Siamese twin brothers.
.
straddles the stylistic gulf between David Lynch and the Coen brothers.
It is a creepy film, beautiful in odd and disturbing ways.
The film got caught up too much in the tragedy of the twin's life without coming up with much more than heavy symbolism for its answers.
Nothing much happens, but we go on a journey just the same.
A small, poignant gem despite its laggardly pacing.
Definitely an off-beat, side show attraction, but with three big rings of heart, character, and soul.
A movie as compelling and unusual as its subject.
The Polishes aim to find what a union between two people really means and demands, and their film is surprisingly gentle, heartfelt and sweet.
an air of mystery - not a whodunit mystery, but a deeper, internal mystery of the spirit and the soul 
Twin Falls Idaho is flawed in many ways but its virtues also cannot be denied.
A sad, fascinating, and profoundly moving portrait of two individuals who have learned, not by choice, to live together.
This ranks as one of Hammer's greatest ever.
A rattling collection of warmed-over ideas filmed on a paltry budget.
.
doesn't do anything that Dracula and Prince of Darkness didn't already do better.
Yet another Chris Lee Dracula picture
This movie looks and feels like the dutiful labors of a good man who should have vacationed at this gorgeous mythical land rather than filmed a movie at the site.
Casa de los Baby's" is a frustrating and tedious experience to endure.
Didactic rather than dramatic, and schematic rather than realistic, Sayles' femme-driven yarn, set in an anonymous place, lags behind the zeitgeist with little to say about the issue of adoption or First vs.
Third World countries.
a political pamphlet not very different from others that come from left-leaning Hollywood these days
Sayles lets the befuddlements and ordinary complications of life take its course like a winding, sunlit stream.
Sayles' love of and respect for the culture, and his willingness-or eagerness-to leave the viewer with more questions than answers makes Casa de los Babys superlative.
The story trails off in so many directions that it's hard to follow.
After a while, I just found myself losing interest.
Goo-goo gag me.
All in all, the film just tries to do too much.
Writer-director John Sayles has successfully tackled so many unexpected subjects that one has to wonder if he's got a dartboard in his office to help him pick his next topic.
The film sags from the weight of too many characters, and its suggestion that the world is nothing but sadness is too much to bear.
Astute character studies are the point here, rather than a neat and tidy story.
Displays a succinct sensitivity making it [Sayles'] best film since Lone Star.
This is a thought-provoking film, and it features one of the best acting ensembles in awhile -- even by Sayles' standards.
Sayles gives us sample tastes of characters and a situation that could have made a full-course cinematic meal.
Sayles demonstrates a remarkable ability to fully flesh out characters who are on-screen for only a short time.
Each woman is a cardboard cutout, and the talented actresses here seem boxed in by their roles.
Though Casa de los Babys is a low-key effort, one that stops as suddenly as if Sayles turned off the camera and ambled away, it asks questions worth pondering.
With the help of his cast, Sayles fashions Babys into a passionately interesting social discourse.
He slips in touches of irony, and beautiful moments of raw sentiment.
A raw slice of life that goes beyond the obvious external issues.
dramatically inert
Casa de los Babys is probably the biggest misstep of [Sayles's] long career
Sayles keeps crankin' 'em out: socially conscious, diversity-embracing ensemble pieces.
.
This one is minor and sketchy.
A jumble of ideas and stunning performances that never coalesce into a satisfying movie.
Even an uneven Sayles film is superior to most such Hollywood dramas.
It is a story without a story, helpless and wandering, enjoyable for its parts but failing as a whole.
Sayles ..
.
can keep the politics front and center while still maintaining a fierce humanity at the core
A drama whose characters are so sketchy and unpleasant they keep tripping over the movie's one-note ideas.
If most of the characters seem underdeveloped, they are also convincing and interesting.
More intelligent and substantive than it is entertaining.
The topic--international adoption--is certainly compelling and the performances convincing, but as a drama, Casa de Los Babys never quite comes to life.
Sincerity is no substitute for dramatic excellence, and in this case Sayles's ambition proves far greater than his accomplishment.
Sayles is the ultimate "on the other hand" guy, which may make for more thoughtful understanding but which is difficult to translate to film, a medium better suited to the dynamic, the opinionated, and the one-sided.
Casa de los Babys has a grander scope than Sayles was either able to afford or invest enough time in developing.
Unfortunately, once the situation is established, Sayles sits on it.
The women wait, the workers work and a dramatic arc is not part of the equation.
Light on plot but full of heartbreaking, subtle moments.
Sayles, a rare screenwriter who consistently creates thoughtful roles for grown-up women, has outdone himself here.
Suggests a filmmaker whose vision has become reductive, motivated not by all-embracing interest but by an ultimately self-protective intent not to surrender to blind emotion in any form.
A collaborative triumph in which the right actresses in the right roles respond to Sayles' ever-gentle touch.
Turns out to be yet another movie that encourages liberal urbanites to smirk at red-state knuckle-draggers.
Though it should be longer, we're not especially unhappy that it isn't, for being around these women gets tedious.
[Sayles] does more showing than his usual telling, without forsaking his interest in people and the histories and societies that have created their problems.
If Casa de los Babys isn't necessarily a fully realized film, it's still a deeply felt glimpse into dizzyingly complex political and psychological forces that shape the most crucial decisions of a woman's life.
Strong performances.
a simpler disappointment than Sunshine State, with its obvious political statements and shallowly drawn characters
You know this election is about a choice.
The Government are saying stay the course, stay with the current mob.
We're staying no actually, this nation can do better.
That's why we are closing loopholes, we're stopping spending money on franking credits - we're going to stop giving out tax cheques to people who haven't paid income tax and instead we're going to spend that money for example, on pensioner dental.
No, no, hang on, Leigh.
You keep characterising my policies -
Well, I want to try and answer -
A fair go for all.
We're going to invest in people and invest in infrastructure.
You ask, you want - let's not dumb politics down to six second sound bites, that's what annoys people.
I'll tell you what we will do - I'll give you as quick as possibly I can.
We're going to have real change because more of the same isn't good enough.
We're going to get wages moving again.
We're going to take real action on climate change.
We're going to look after three million pensioners and Commonwealth Senior Health Card holders with dental care, we're going to provide a million Australian families with better support child care then they are getting.
And we're going to end the chaos.
One topic we haven't talked about tonight is the lurch to the right by the current Government.
Ok, but I'm happy to contribute, though.
That's alright.
Well, fair's fair.
In the six years that the current government have been in, Labor has been united.
I have got a tremendously talented Shadow Cabinet.
People can also trust us because we're actually not hiding our policies.
You said in your introduction that Labor -  I think Laura Tingle did, sorry.
She said Labor is putting forward a big agenda.
Well, we are.
We believe that if we want the Australian people to trust us, we have to trust them and tell them what we're going to do.
Now, I know not everyone is going to agree with everything.
But for six years, we've learned our lesson.
We're not chaotic and divided.
The other thing of course is if you vote for me, you get a Labor Government.
Whereas if you vote for Mr Morrison, who knows what deals he's done with Pauline Hanson and Clive Palmer and the other assorted extreme right-wing bar scene from Star Wars.
Leigh, let's see how we go in the election first.
We haven't won and we haven't lost.
But one thing's for sure.
In the event we do win, we have put our policies to the people beforehand.
What business tell me, what families tell me, what small business, what farmers tell me is that they're sick of surprises.
What we are doing is we are putting our policies before the election to the people.
So even though people use the word mandate quite casually in politics, I genuinely believe we will have a mandate and we'll do our best to convince the Senate.
I mean, one thing I should say is that seeing the profusion of small and cranky parties in the Senate, I do think people should vote the same way in the Senate as they do in the House.
What we don't want is instability.
People are sick and tired of us politicians always being at each other's throats.
What they want to see is us putting the people first.
So what we're doing is putting people at the centre of all of our decisions.
Thanks for the conversation, Leigh.
It was great.
Thanks.
That was Nadia Clancy, running in a David and Goliath struggle in Boothby.
Labor hasn't won Boothby since 1943 but Nadia Clancy is making this a real competition for the voters of Boothby.
That is what elections should be actually they should be about the future.
And that means that this election is all about climate change.
When we talk to the children here, the politicians of Australia really need to do more to protect the future of our kids.
There is no clearer test about the future than climate change.
Only Labor has got a real plan to take action on climate change.
We want to get on and start fixing the problems so we can hand on a better deal for our children's future.
Contrast this with the complete chaos and division of the last six years of the Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison Government.
What we have seen is complete chaos in the ranks of the government.
The reason why Malcolm Turnbull couldn't get anything done on climate change is because he was held to ransom by Peter Dutton and Tony Abbott and the right wing of the Liberal Party.
But, there is an even bigger problem looming.
Mr Morrison has managed to take himself hostage to Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson.
We can't afford to have another three years of inaction on climate change, our kids deserve better.
I would now like to hand over to Tanya Plibersek and we will talk a bit more about all the exciting things Labor is going to do to help kids in the future.
I've got Mark Butler here to add to it but i just want to put the government on notice that the people of Australia are over excuses and delay and distraction on taking real action on climate change.
We regard climate change and a real plan for it as one of the key four or five issues in this election.
I am pleased to note that the AEC has reported that quarter of a million Australians have voted in the first two days.
This is 100,000 more than at the same time in 2016.
And what Labor people are telling me when they are handing out how to vote cards to vote Labor is that a lot of people are talking about climate change.
I'll get Mark to go to your specifics.
Well I see that the Greens are sort of trailing their coat and saying, "Look at me.
" The fact of the matter is that if we get elected we'll be making decisions in a Labor Cabinet and the decisions will be made by members of Parliament of the Labor Party.
What we will do is we will implement the policies we've put forward.
I think even our harshest critics would agree that we are the party who is putting forward policies in this election and we're outlining all of what we intend to do.
We're not for switching because some independent MP or some Greens MP is suffering relevance deprivation and wants to see their name in the paper.
And I tell you if you want to talks about the coalitions in Canberra there is only one coalition - the coalition of Mr Morrison, Ms Hanson and Mr Palmer and this is a coalition of chaos and cuts.
If people are looking for stability at the next election, if they just want to be sure that who they vote for is who they're going to get, vote one Labor - and vote one Labor for real action on climate change.
We have no plan to lift the Medicare levy.
The reason why I can say that with such confidence is because we're making the hard economic decisions.
We're clamping down on the multinationals.
We're not going to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on unfunded tax cuts as this government is promising.
And what that means for Australians is if you're one of three million Australian pensioners or Commonwealth health seniors card-holders, you are going to get $1,000 assistance through Medicare every two years with your teeth.
What our health promises mean is that if you are one of the two Australians who will be diagnosed with cancer by the time you're in your mid-80s, Labor is going to virtually reduce your out-of-pocket costs to as low as we possibly can.
It means that if you use hospitals and you're waiting for arthroscopies, for knee surgeries, for hip replacements, for cataracts, Labor's got your back and we're going to reduce the out-of-pocket costs to see a doctor.
First of all, we want as many people as possible to vote for us.
And I will again, very briefly, not to not push your patience, I will again repeat - no coalition with the Greens.
Sorry, Richard, it's not happening.
And in terms of our taxation policies, you can do the maths yourself.
We're offering a million Australian households help with their childcare.
A subsidy to working parents, an additional $1,500 to $2,100 for every child in the system every year.
We're going to look after the pensioners.
I mean it's long overdue that someone did something for the pensioners.
You don't have to put a wraparound ad on your bus.
That's not action.
That's propaganda.
What you actually need is to really help the pensioners.
We're really helping the pensioners by providing additional assistance in dental care.
Tim, trust in politics is at an all-time low.
And one of the ways Labor is going to rebuild trust in Australian politics is we'll tell people before an election what we intend to do after an election.
The good news for us is that if we're elected, we're elected to implement our policies.
I do not expect the Senate to stand in the way of our government, if we are elected, when we clearly outlined all our policies and have such a strong mandate in the event that we are elected.
First of all, I understood that Mr Palmer has said he wants to rip up the plan.
Well I think that's a disaster for South Australia.
I mean Palmer is basically a billboard with no substance.
He's a text message with no follow-through.
What's happening here is Australian democracy is under threat.
What we are actually seeing is Mr Palmer is trying to buy the Australian democratic system with $70 or $80 million.
Unfortunately, Mr Morrison is his accomplice.
I've got to say again - and I'll come back to you - Palmer can't pay for his promises.
You all know that he makes it up.
You all know that what he's done is he has basically hooked Morrison into whatever mad-cap schemes Palmer is going to run around and promise.
People can sniff a fake a long way away and in terms of Mr Morrison, what was he thinking, letting himself be taken hostage to Mr Palmer or the extremists of One Nation?
You know, you don't need to have a Rhodes Scholarship to work out that Clive Palmer never does anything for free.
If Clive Palmer promises to do something for you, you can be reasonably sure there's strings attached.
What I've actually said is that we'd like to see 50 per cent of new car sales be electric vehicles.
What Labor will do to help create, make that an option, is we want to help put in a network of charging stations so it's a real option for people.
What we've also said is that government fleet purchasing requirements over that time will move towards more electric vehicles as part of our mix.
The reason why we're doing this is twofold.
One is, I know that around the world other people in other countries are getting access to cheaper electric vehicles which, of course, save your petrol bills.
But in Australia, because we've got such a backward, technophobic, anti-climate change government, motorists are being denied cheaper options for their motor vehicles.
So we think this is good on climate because it will help reduce emissions.
We think it's also appropriate that Australia shouldn't become this sort of, you know, Albania of the southern hemisphere where in fact we are blocked away from new technology because we've got an ignorant, anti-scientific, anti-climate change, anti-technology government.
No we don't have any plans to do that.
We have a safeguards mechanism.
But what I'll do is I'll get Mark to supplement that answer.
No.
There's a world of difference here.
First of all, this fellow, who I haven't met, who was in the Northern Territory Senate ticket, I don't think that what he did anyone is contrasting with the complete Islamaphobia of the Liberals.
But nonetheless, not appropriate.
Gone.
But goodness me when will we finally admit what everyone actually knows?
The Liberal Party is riddled with right-wing extremists.
It doesn't matter if it's Andrew Hastie contradicting Ian Goodenough or Ian Goodenough contradicting Andrew Hastie about what right-wing nutter they meet with or indeed this Islamaphobe, this racist.
You know after Christchurch what do you need to get people to wake up in the Liberal Party and say it's unacceptable?
But the real problem here is that it just confirms another day the Liberal Party of Australia is riddled with right-wing extremists.
The Liberal Party is making, and the National Party are making preference arrangements with right-wing extremists like the One Nation Party.
I mean we've had chaos in the last six years.
And people are sick of the chaos.
But because of Mr Morrison's personal choices to work with Clive Palmer, because of his coalition partner - I mean they're in the Coalition except when it suits the Nats to say they're not and do a dirty deal with One Nation.
You know there's a pattern of behaviour emerging here that the Liberals and Nationals are riddled with right-wing extremists and the one thing it means, as people vote today and tomorrow and right through to May 18, is that if you're sick of the instability and chaos, vote Labor at the next election.
No, I don't agree with any of the assumptions in that question for the following reasons.
The Australian people have already worked out what the Liberal Party haven't.
Climate change is real.
I don't need to give a lecture about climate change to two million Australians who've put solar power on their rooftop.
They see the advantages of moving to renewables.
It's without a doubt one of the top two or three issues in this election.
People are actually sick and tired of politicians.
They're sick and tired of the fear and the scare campaigns.
They're sick and tired of lazy, right-wing, anti-climate change governments coming up with every excuse in the world to say the future's too hard.
We're in a childcare centre.
These kids have a reasonable expectation that the adults and the leaders in their world will be as optimistic about the future as our young people are.
What optimism or hope is there in the future of Australia when you vote for the Liberal Nationals who basically hate doing anything on climate change?
If this government was fair dinkum on climate change Malcolm Turnbull would still be Prime Minister of Australia.
Thanks, everybody.
We'll see you at the next function.
Good morning everybody, it's great to be here at a great Catholic primary school, doing great things for the kids and doing a great job actually for Australia.
Now Tanya and I and Mark Butler are here visiting with Hannah and we're pleased to say that a Labor government, if it gets elected on May the 18th, is going to invest a billion dollars to help make our schools solar schools.
Four thousand schools will benefit from an upgrade, or indeed the introduction of new technology, to get their power bills down, and to also make sure we're doing more on climate change.
These are very sensible proposals  which are going to help schools with the cost of living challenges, which are going to help provide power into the grid and means that we can do something proper on climate change.
In terms of where we go on this, what the government's - what we will do as the government is we will work with both government and non-government schools to roll out this program.
What I'd like to do now is to ask Tanya to talk further about this program and also Mark Butler.
Are there any questions ?
Alright, I think I understand your question, it's about the cost of climate change and the cost of our policies.
I've got Mark Butler here today as well, which as a little aside, I've got my climate change minister with me, we're in Western Australia, I don't think, a little prize could get Melissa Price photographed with Scott Morrison, while they're over here talking about climate.
But that's just the small part.
The big picture is, as we heard last night in the debate, this government has got every excuse in the book not to take action on climate change.
Climate change is real.
Climate change is extracting a big cost as you said correctly, Greg.
It's estimated at $18 billion dollars a year in natural disasters and some of that is obviously due to more extreme weather events and climate.
Sorry, Greg I'm going to do you the courtesy of your three point question and get I and Mark to answer it if you will let me.
Now on the cost of climate change, we think there is a big cost.
You and I know that this government is going down every rabbit hole, down every burrow, on every sideshow, to avoid one fact: they don't have a climate policy, do they?
I mean if they were going to have a climate policy which was serious Malcolm Turnbull would still be Prime Minister.
But you talk about modelling, why don't I get Mark to talk about the plethora of material which is already there.
Well first of all we think childcare is a unique sector.
So the model in which we're going to finally sort out the underpayment of early childhood educators is a model, a template which we will only use in childcare.
In terms of the first industry to see wages movement we have other mechanisms to help other industries.
Now I make no apology for the fact that I want to reverse the penalty rate cuts which have seen, as the McKell Institute says, if they are not reversed, $2.
8 billion dollars of pay taken out of the pockets of hundreds of thousands of low paid workers in restaurants, in accommodation, in pharmacy.
So we've got a range of different strategies.
But for early childhood educators, it almost, this government is so mean-spirited, Mr Morrison must have a very warped view of how you treat underpayment of workers in childcare.
To rule it out, to say we won’t fix childcare unless everyone else gets an identical pay rise – well this is just absurd.
The fact of the matter is and you may be aware that if you look at 96 occupational categories in Australia, childcare comes in at the 92nd lowest paid.
92nd.
And it’s no coincidence in my opinion that it’s an industry predominantly populated by women, in other words 96 per cent of the workforce are women.
So when you join the dots, a feminised industry, underpaid, early childhood education, underpaid.
We've come up with a plan to help early childhood educators.
I mean, the poverty of Mr Morrison’s wages policy, we heard it in the debate last night where when he was asked about wages he started talking about emissions reduction.
You know join those dots for me.
But the point about it is he doesn’t have a plan for peoples wages and the only answer that his poor old minister Birmingham gave today or last night about early childhood educators, he said 'get the providers to pay them more'.
Well that's a great plan Simon because the providers will make parents pay more.
So Mr Birmingham’s only plan to help early childhood educators is to make parents pay.
We don’t have that plan, we've come up with I think a special solution to deal.
and you don’t have to take my word for it, ask all the parents who send their kids to childcare.
We think that the RBA should be independent in terms of its setting of monetary policy.
The RBA has said that it likes to see inflation between two and three per cent.
I think the bigger problem or the bigger challenge for me isn't what the RBA says inflation should be, it’s the fact in the last quarter inflation was zero per cent.
Can I tell you, that’s the equivalent of the alarm going off in the fire station.
When you've got zero per cent inflation that means people aren't spending money.
The reason why people aren't spending money is under this government they're unconfident.
And one of the reasons they're unconfident is we see cuts to schools and hospitals.
We also see wage stagnation.
You know Mr Morrison loves to talk about a strong economy.
But a strong economy for exactly who?
The reality is that there is one million Australians that have got to hold down two jobs to make ends meet.
There’s one million Australians plus who every month say they'd like more work.
The reality is that we've seen prices going up, cost of living, childcare, healthcare, energy prices.
This economy is not working in the interests of middle and working class people.
Under Mr Morrison it’s never been a better time to be a high-priced CEO or a multinational in Australia.
Under Mr Morrison it’s never been a worse time to be a middle class wage earner in this country.
That was the metaphor I used.
I think this government's economic record is pretty bloody hopeless.
Let's just call it as it is.
Let me answer your question, you've asked.
First of all let’s go to some key numbers.
Under this government, debt has gone up.
Debt has doubled under this government.
That's a problem because if interest rates go up all of a sudden Australians will be stuck with paying bigger interest rate payments on a government’s national debt that they’ve run up.
We've got the problem of under-employment.
We’ve got the problem of wages stagnation, now you see zero per cent inflation.
This economy is not operating in the interests of working people.
What we've got is a government with a very threadbare policy offering.
You all saw, well hopefully you all saw the debate last night.
What we saw is two contrasting policies.
We've got a positive vision for the future.
We understand that if you invest in education you're going to get a productive workforce in the future.
We understand that if you aim for the world’s best healthcare system you're going to have healthier Australians.
We understand that when you take on cost of living and don't just leave it, that what we do is we see price restraint in childcare, private health insurance.
More renewables will ultimately mean lower prices.
We're the only party with a wages policy and we want to take real action on climate change.
By contrast, what did Mr Morrison offer viewers watching last night?
His only argument for re-election is that he's not Labor.
I mean his only argument is very threadbare.
You and I know this is the most threadbare policy offering in a century of Australian elections.
They just basically say it'll trickle down.
If we look after the top 10 per cent, the top 5 per cent, maybe you'll get more tips on your plate when you go out to lunch.
They say that they’re going to give you tax cuts in five years’ time.
But do they explain to you where the money's coming from?
They’re promising you unfunded tax plans on the never-never which can only be delivered if there are cuts to hospitals, and services and they're promising business as usual.
That’s not good enough for Australia.
The Australian people need a government worthy of the people.
He should have.
His comments were appalling, absolutely appalling.
Should have resigned.
But it just I think highlights the bigger problem this desperate Morrison government has.
No wonder they're cranky in their public presentation at the moment.
They realise that they've pulled the wrong reins.
They've made as their key allies Pauline Hanson’s One Nation party and Clive Palmer.
You know, this is chaotic.
Imagine if Mr Morrison sneaks home at the election, courtesy of Pauline Hanson's One Nation and Clive Palmer.
Imagine if we have a country who if you vote Liberal or One Nation or Palmer United party and you have Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson calling the shots to the government.
I mean does anyone seriously believe that Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson just give their preferences to Mr Morrison without there being an IOU on the other side of the election?
I promise you this - a vote for Morrison is a vote for Hanson and Palmer and it's a vote for chaos, chaos, chaos.
I think that aged care workers are underpaid.
But we have got a Royal Commission under way, let's see what the Royal Commission produces in the way of it.
I want to pay a compliment to our aged care workers.
They do a lot of work with a lot of vulnerable people.
I think that we need to invest more in aged care generally.
But I think let's have the Royal Commission.
The solution that we have looked at for early childhood educators is a recognition that nothing else has worked.
They are underpaid, they're highly trained, and it is long overdue that we do the right thing.
Our plan is that all childcare workers would see an improvement in their wages.
First of all the RBA has got to make its decisions independent of government pressure.
So the decision they make, I'm not going to start putting pressure on them.
I think though that if they felt they had to do that, that is not a reflection on the Reserve Bank.
It is a reflection on the Australian Government isn't it?
This is a government who has boasted about their strong economic management but the fact that we are even talking about an interest rate cut shows the anaemic weakness in the current government's economic management.
What this nation needs is we need to make sure that we are not just relying on our mineral exports, as important as they are, to prop up our economy.
We need to go back to the fundamentals.
Let's invest in people, let's invest in infrastructure.
You know let's invest in our human capital and let's invest in our physical infrastructure.
We've got a plan, for example, in Western Australia to invest in Metronet.
We've got a plan to make sure in Victoria or in Queensland we invest in key public transport and of course the Bruce Highway and you name it, we've been looking at infrastructure.
That's good, that's more productivity.
We want to upgrade our ports and upgrade our airports.
The other part of our economic growth plan is to invest in people.
The beauty of what Labor is suggesting, the vision under our plan, which we are trusting the Australian people with by telling them what we are going to do as we should.
Imagine if we are a country where every three and four year old actually gets kindergarten.
Fifteen hours a week, forty weeks a year.
That just means they get the best start in life.
That's world's best practice, it's only just good enough for Australia.
Imagine if we are a country that puts back the $14 billion that the current government promised for public schools but never did.
Imagine if every kid can go to a school regardless of their postcode, regardless of the wealth of their parents, the size of the school, get a quality education.
Imagine if you're a parent of a child with a disability and you don't get treated like a bully merely because you demand for a fair go for your child.
Imagine if we have 200,000 more people going to university in the next 10 years.
Imagine if we can restore the 150,000 apprenticeships, traineeships, which have disappeared under the current government.
Why don't we in this country have a debate about how can we be the best in the world?
Imagine if a million Australian households actually get real help, $1000, $1500, $2000 a year to help with their childcare subsidies.
And imagine if we were a country who doesn't desert our pensioners.
Three million people are on the Commonwealth seniors health card or indeed on a pension, full or part.
Imagine if we as a country decide that we are going to invest in the dental health of our older Australians.
That's the sort of country which will grow into the future and where we see the fair go, not just for the top, but for everyone.
Well Miranda I know you've followed this issue extensively so thank you for your work on this topic.
For me I've never been one who's been sectarian.
And I think if you spoke to the Catholic Education Commissions around Australia they would agree that Tanya and I have been very good to work with.
And so where that leaves your question is this.
We don't think you should discriminate against people because of their sexuality.
And I don't think most people do.
And most people in the church accept that they've been working through these issues and it's working okay.
But I also respect the right of parents to send their children to a school based upon the faith and the values taught in it.
We will work through every issue.
We will work through every issue.
When I spoke to Bishops and leaders of churches, they agree.
They don't want to see little children discriminated against.
We will work through these issues.
What I don't want to see is religion becoming a political football.
That is why Labor led the case to make sure that the Catholic and low-fee Christian schools got their funding restored.
My problem is of course that the government hasn't followed through with the government schools.
We will work through this Miranda because I understand in Australia that it's not a question of majorities dictating to minorities.
This country works best when we work together.
I'm not sure we do.
But having said that we will always keep talking to people about it.
I don't think anyone should be persecuted because of their faith.
What I do also think is that if we are going to talk about priorities in this country - three million Aussie pensioners don't need to be forgotten in this election.
Do you know the number of times I walk around in the community and the pensioners come up.
These aren't people with a million dollars in shares and getting all the franking credits for not paying tax.
I'm talking about three million battlers.
And so many elections people have said what's in it for the pensioner?
Now I know Mr Morrison says he indexes it every six months.
Well every government does that.
That's like giving yourself a medal for getting up in the morning.
The real issue is what are we going to do extra for pensioners.
And I'm making it very clear just as I've said this election is a referendum on wages, just because this election needs to be about real change in climate.
This election also needs to be about you know cost of living and childcare.
This election needs to be about our pensioners.
And I and my united team, we're not going on with the antics of Palmer, Hanson et al.
We've been doing the homework over the last six years and because of our economic reforms I can promise every pensioner in Australia, pensioners worried about their oral hygiene, their health, the cleaning, the costs of looking after their teeth.
If you vote Labor at this election, we'll make sure in Medicare you've got up to $1,000 every two years for the rest of your life to make sure that you can have at least a fair go at having proper dental hygiene.
Thanks everybody we'll see at the next gig.
Thanks, Melita.
I want to thank Good Start too and it's great to be back in Perth with Tanya Plibersek.
Tonight is debate night - I'm really looking forward to a positive debate, outlining competing visions for what we can do to help the Australian people.
But it is all about choices.
Today I make very clear that the Labor Party chooses to look after the childcare costs of a million Australian households rather than unsustainable tax loopholes at the top end of town.
It's all about a choice.
A choice between a united, stable Labor team, led by myself, supported by my Deputy Leader Tanya Plibersek and Melita Markey here or the divided ramshackle coalition of the unwilling, led by Mr Morrison, and Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson.
This is a very unstable coalition of cuts and chaos in Canberra and it needs to stop.
But Labor is not just focused on them.
As I said, we have got exciting offerings to help Australian families with the cost of childcare.
I was really pleased yesterday in Melbourne to announce that because of the serious economic decisions we've made, we can afford to provide the single best improvement assisting families, Australian households with the cost of their childcare in many years.
We are saying to Australian families, whose household incomes are up to $174,000, that we will help improve the subsidy that you receive to help you pay the cost of your childcare.
Effectively, this will mean between about a $2100 per family to about $1400 per family at the upper end.
This is really good news, because why should women have to go to work, earn all the money, just to see it all end up in childcare costs.
We've also announced the single most significant improvement to early childhood educators' wages.
The system is failing.
Early childhood educators are the first adults to which we trust our kids, and yet they are underpaid.
The parents know it, the community knows it, everybody knows it.
We also propose putting in measures to control prices.
We don't want to look after families and the early childhood educators to see the fees miraculously increase by the amount which we're providing to support the teachers and to support the parents.
I just want to close on reminding everyone that yesterday as well, it wasn't just good news for Australian families.
It was good news for pensioners.
I've already been inundated by pensioners since our announcement who say every election there's nothing for the pensioners.
Well, that stops today.
We are saying to 2.
6 million aged pensioners, to over 380,000 people on the Commonwealth health seniors card, that we want to help you with the cost of your dental care.
There's 185,000 people right now, older Australians, putting off getting dental care because it's too expensive.
Well, Labor has got a proposition for every pensioner in Australia, that when you need health with your teeth, and your oral hygiene is so important to your health generally, we'll be there.
We're going to create new support within our Medicare system so that every two years, pensioners, three million of them, will get an additional $1000 to help with the cost of going to see the dentist.
Labor is in touch with middle class, working class people and people on the pension.
We understand that if we can help with the cost of child care, if we can help with the early childhood educators, if we can help keep prices down generally and we can help with pensioners, then millions of Australians are going to be better off if they vote Labor on May 18.
I'd now like to hand over to Tanya to talk a bit more about our exciting vision for restoring the fair go for millions of Australians.
I will get Tanya to supplement this but let's go to some of the macro numbers here.
This Government when it talks about childcare, cut people's childcare and other people got an improvement.
Under our new scheme, no one goes backwards.
So, just to repeat the good news for Australian families.
A family household income up to $68,000 will get 100 per cent subsidy up to the capped hours, be it $11.
77.
One hundred per cent.
That's free childcare.
A family household between $68,000 and $100,000, they'll get around 85 per cent subsidy which is also very good news and an improvement on the status quo.
That will save them $1500 or so every year.
That is per child.
So for a couple of kids, $3K.
That's not to be sneezed at.
Then family household incomes between $100,000 and $174,000, the subsidy will taper down but it is still more generous than what the current Coalition is offering working families.
So it will be from 85 per cent to 60 per cent.
That will be a benefit of between $1200 and $1400 for families.
I'll get Tanya to supplement.
I thought Tanya answered that.
The point is that the Government, they can't help themselves because they are so busy defending the top end of town with their unsustainable tax cuts, they try and do all the good policies on the cheap.
How is it they came up with a childcare policy, which in order to see three families benefit, knocked off the fourth family?
We've said we will review that.
We want to see how that's working.
We are not convinced it's working well.
But the good news for Australian families, to cut through the clutter and white noise of the election, if childcare matters to you, if you're worried that your household budget is being knocked around by the cost of childcare, Labor is so far ahead of the Coalition in our offerings on childcare, just not funny.
There are a number of points in that but I'll be as brief as I can.
I think you're right, Olivia.
Everything is going up in Australia except people's wages.
Wages are stagnating.
That's a fact.
This government has broken the sort of records no government should ever want to break in terms of low wages growth.
That's a problem.
In terms of how we help workers get wage rises in a modest and meaningful way, we've already suggested a number of policies in the course of last week.
The Government is suspiciously silent on raising wages.
Of course, we're in the home state of Mathias Cormann who famously said low wages is the economic architecture of Liberals, so they're happy.
But we have picked childcare workers to go first.
I think this is a strategically important industry.
We talk a lot about the national interest but what could be more in the national interest than the quality care and education of our zero to five year olds?
That is pretty important.
These are the first workers, the first adults in our children's lives we trust outside the family unit and they work hard.
The lovely lady Emma who we just spoke to before.
Eleven years in the industry, two years here.
She has plenty of friends who come in with the best hopes in the world but the money is so crap, the money is so bad, that they have had to sacrifice their passion just to make ends meet.
We're going to change that.
So we have deliberately said that we think the early childhood educators is an area where the normal system is not working.
If you're in the private sector, say you're in the media or say you're in mining or say you're in, I don't know, manufacturing.
You can go and bargain with your boss to try to get a wage rise.
But the fact of the matter is childcare has a lot of government funding so when the government funding is tight there is simply no money for the wage rise.
So, if you like, childcare workers are caught in a Catch-22 by the economics of childcare.
If we don't put more money into the industry then you can never get a wage rise.
But if you can never get a wage rise, we keep churning the good workers.
So what we've come up with is a policy which is not dissimilar to what was done when Labor was last in government for housing, community sector workers, where you pick industries where they are predominantly feminised.
In this case, did you know childcare is 96 per cent women so it's no coincidence that their the pay is low because that's the sort of in-built bias in the system.
What we've said is we will find money in an orderly manner across ten years, or across eight years I think we've spelt out.
Then, we'll sit down with the employers, with the industry, with the parents, with the independent umpire and work out how we can do it.
But what we bring to the table is good will.
And more than good will, we are willing to find money.
This is a government who is willing to find $77 billion - although they haven't told us where it is coming from, what cuts they are going to make - to pay for a tax cut for the top three per cent.
We've explained how we're raising our money.
We've been upfront with the people for the last three years and this is the dividend of these reforms.
Everyone knows wages in early childhood are too low.
Parents know it.
Industry knows it.
If any of you have got kids, you'd know it too.
But there hasn't been a proper answer until now.
We can't just ask the parents to pay more.
They are already struggling with the bills.
The industry is a hybrid of for-profit and not-for-profit.
They don't have the money to give significant wage rises.
The other alternative is we can just keep going along asking childcare workers to subsidise the children by not getting wage rises.
We've come up with a neat solution and it makes sense.
There is some precedent and we'll work through it in a calm.
We haven't won the election, yet.
Thank you for that optimism.
I believe our policies will see sensible movements in wages.
This nation can't keep bumping along at the bottom in terms of wages.
I know, for example, that we will reverse these unfair cuts, arbitrary cuts to penalty rates.
That will mean that hundreds of thousands of people will get a wage rise.
I know our plan here for early childhood educators will see in our first term modest and sensible increases.
I know that when we improve the bargaining laws, that will crack down on sham contracting, we will stamp out the abuse of temporary work visas from overseas.
I have been around this business for 30 years.
I understand what we have got to do to get wages moving again and we will.
But it will be done with business, it will be done recognising capacity to pay.
But you know we have got a big problem in Australia.
Confidence is flat.
We're seeing household savings being spent.
We saw zero per cent inflation in the last quarter.
That shows you that people are just basically hunkering down under this Liberal Government.
What we need is a bit of confidence back in the system and that is what we will bring to Australia.
I'm not aware of that.
In terms of Mr Palmer, why is to hard for billionaires to pay the taxpayers the money they owe them?
Why is it that there is one rule for the rest of us and another rule for him and Scott Morrison?
If you owed the Government $10,000, for longer than a year, the Tax Office would give you a ring, wouldn't they?
They might  give you a letter.
They will chase you up.
But apparently in this country if you owe $70 million to the taxpayer not only does the Government not worry about it - it wants your preferences.
In fact it wants to elect you to the Senate.
it's a whole new strategy in Australian politics.
I am lucky enough to have Tanya here, she's been giving this matter quite a degree of reflection.
Well, the election hasn't been decided yet.
But having said that, we'll deal with whatever the Australian people give us in the Senate.
But if Clive Palmer gets into the Senate, I blame Scott Morrison.
Because the only way that bloke can be on electoral life support is because the Liberal and National Party are putting him there.
This is turning Australian politics into a joke, isn't it?
Let's go back to the fundamentals.
Mr Morrison was the Treasurer who repaid Mr Palmer's $70 million worth of debts to the workers and that therefore means Mr Palmer owes the Government that $70 million.
But instead of getting the $70 million out of Clive Palmer, Clive Palmer said, "I will give you my preferences.
" And all of a sudden when Clive Palmer was the sort of bad guy in the Liberal dictionary, all of a sudden, get the preferences, he's a good guy, don't bother me about his debts.
So in the Senate we have got to stop it feeding the extremists.
The problem is now that the Morrison Government is so desperate that when you vote for Scott Morrison you're voting for the Morrison-Palmer-Hanson Government.
Australians are sick of the circus of Australian politics.
A vote for Mr Morrison pretty much guarantees Mr Palmer in the Senate, Ms Hanson in the Senate and more chaos for three years.
Vote Labor in the House and vote Labor in the Senate to avoid more chaos and confusion.
Well I am not sure that the people who preselected him knew of all of these posts.
But I don't think he should be our candidate.
Just before we all shout.
So I don't think he should be our candidate any more and I understand that it is in train for him to step down as our candidate.
And I hope that Mr Palmer is willing to do something about the 20 candidates he has got with Constitutional eligibility clouds over their heads.
And I hope that Mr Morrison can show the same certainty of purpose as I've just displayed.
That is going to be a matter between them and the police.
I don't know anything about it.
When it comes to adhering to the law though I want to make it clear, no one is above the law, not the CFMEU, not their officials, nor the banks.
And always remember that our friend the current Prime Minister voted 26 times to cover up the banks' behaviour, voted 26 times against a banking royal commission.
And indeed your question goes to the heart of making sure we have got a better trust in the system.
That's why we need a national integrity commission.
And I do not know why Western Australian Attorney-General Christian Porter keeps resisting having an anti-corruption commission.
Perhaps one more question.
You're not reporting accurately what Tanya said.
But in terms of mining, you in fact do remind me kindly of our announcement about the future of mining.
Today Jason Clare and I have announced and I guess it is a good news story so not as exciting but it is a $75 million commitment to invest in the future of mining.
Did you know in Australia that we haven't had a tier 1 mining discovery since 2005?
That is tier 1, very high quality, underground.
The rest of the world has reported three tier 1 discoveries every year.
Did you know about $221 billion that we make in mining exports, 80 per cent of it comes from mining deposits which were discovered 40 years ago.
We don't properly map underground Australia.
So Labor is putting in $75 million to help work with geoscience, work with the mining industry so we can exploit our mineral deposits.
Another good bit of news is we are putting in $2 million to fund 50 mining engineering scholarships in Western Australia.
I don't mind repeating what I said earlier, because it is an important point so I appreciate your giving me the chance to do that.
No I don't see this as being economy-wide this approach, at all.
But I do accept that in certain sectors of the economy we have a wages problem, don't we?
And I would put it to you, childcare educators, there is only four things that can be done.
One, they just never get a pay rise.
Well that's not good is it?
I think you would agree with that.
Thirty per cent turnover, very important the development of kids.
Two, we ask the parents to pay a lot more.
That's not really viable either is it with the cost of living crisis under this government?
Three we just ask all the operators to increase their costs, to not pass it on to anyone.
That's not economically rational or reasonable either.
Or four, the Government assists, provide money to the childcare sector so that workers can get better wages.
This is a problem everybody acknowledges.
If all of us agree that childcare wages are too low and if I did a quick survey here of all of you, is $21 or $22 or $23 an hour, really is it enough for someone with a Cert.
III or Diploma in childcare?
You and I know it is not enough.
You asked the question and I am giving you an answer.
So if we know there is a problem, it's then a matter of choices.
And that is what this election is about.
It's about choices.
Today across Australia the pre-poll voting is opening.
It's estimated that up to 40 per cent of people will vote before May 18.
So I say to people who have to vote at pre-poll today, tomorrow or in the next three weeks, this election is about a choice.
You can either give billions of dollars to negative gearing and property investors or you can properly fund early childhood educators' wages.
You can either give billions of dollars away by not policing loopholes for the top end of town or you can provide $2000 to middle class families struggling with the cost of childcare.
This election is about choices and we are making choices.
I want to clamp down on unsustainable tax subsidies for the top end of town.
And do you know what?
I want three million Aussie pensioners to be able to know that they can get a decent set of teeth and afford to go to the dentist.
Thank you, see you around.
Great to be on your show.
About a million Australian families will benefit from our initiative on child care.
Everywhere I’ve travelled in Australia as Opposition Leader, one of the single biggest problems that people tell me is that everything is going up except their wages and child care is in one of the biggest things which is going up in price.
It has gone up 24 per cent in the last six years.
So what’s happening is mum and dad go to work and most of mum's wages are just going to pay the child care.
So what we’re doing is we have made economic reform decisions to make sure that we spend more money helping people with the cost of child care and our proposals today, specifically for nearly a million families, mean somewhere between $1,500 and $2,100 back to families which they are currently spending on child care.
Well good point.
We are keeping an eye on this.
We’ve asked the ACCC - as we give the subsidy to the parents we don't want the operators saying hmmm, yummy, we like that $2,000 subsidy we’ll increase the cost of fees.
So first of all the ACCC is going to have the powers to monitor it.
But if that doesn’t work I'm putting on the table today on your show we will look at introducing price controls like we do for private health insurers.
I think that we want the money to go to parents, not to see more profit being gouged by particular operators.
Well come along to Box Hill today where we’re going to talk more about how we are going to look after early childhood educators.
Early childhood educators, it is a 96 per cent female dominated industry.
I think that it is paid less than other male dominated industries because there are so many women working in it.
You know it is a most important job.
These are the first adults who we trust our kids to out of the family unit, so I think we should pay early childhood educators more.
You will hear more about that later.
Well what we can do is we can make sure that if we are going to provide some support for the wages of early childhood educators, again we will say to the operators if Labor is providing some modest improvement in the wages of childhood educators, if Labor is providing a couple of thousand dollars a year for parents, what we say to the childcare operators is you don't get to pocket that.
We want childcare to be sustainable, we want cost of living to be tackled and we want to see that the people working in the industry get a fair deal.
No, not at all.
What’s happening now is that this government is raising record taxes and they spend it on property investors on their sixth house with negative gearing.
This is a government who is not tough on multinationals paying their fair share.
Instead of being slack on the multinationals, instead of giving away unsustainable tax giveaways to property investors to buy their sixth house, we want to use that money to help subsidise the child care industry so that parents on the front line get cost of living relief.
Well we’ll release our figures before the election is concluded, but we’ve also made clear that we think we need to wind back what we give to negative gearing.
We will do that closer to the election but suffice to say we have done our maths and we are able to pay for the promises we are making.
Once we have revealed all of our promises, then we will reveal the costings to back it up.
We will once we have announced all of our policies.
That will be very soon.
But the point about it is that there are tens of billions of dollars going in unsustainable tax concessions, tens of billions of dollars.
We think it is a better investment, rather than giving a subsidy to someone to buy their sixth house to spend it on child care relief for a million Australian families.
That's a really good point.
First of all, the government loves to say that if we are not going to give a tax subsidy to a property investor, somehow that’s a property tax.
It’s not.
What currently happens in negative gearing - and first of all, anyone who is currently invested under negative gearing rules won't be affected.
So it is a future change.
What happens is when the government gives a subsidy, a reward for investing in your sixth or seventh property, that's an expenditure.
That means we are using tax income and we are giving it to a property investor for making a loss.
Instead of giving that tax money to a property investor for making a loss, I would rather give it to parents.
So it is not an increase in tax.
What it actually is, is it’s a reallocation of priorities.
I want to give it to …
Well it’s a matter of priorities.
This is the truth in Australia at the moment.
If you have a lot of capital you’re taxed very lightly.
If you earn income you’re taxed much more heavily.
What I want to do is to have a fairer, equitable system.
Instead of just giving the property investors and the multinationals a lighter deal what we want to do is to use some of that money which we’re giving to them and reallocate it to spend it on child care.
I would rather see a million Australian families, households whose incomes are less than $170,000 a year, get a couple of thousand dollars of tax relief than give that money either through slack tax laws to multinationals or through giving it to property investors.
It is a matter of priorities.
Well, the fact of the matter is we are arguing for a change in Australia.
We don't want to - I mean, I think this Government is disgraceful in that they are offering a thread-bare policy agenda.
All they are offering Australians is basically an unfunded tax cut in five years’ time, more of this trickle-down economics where the wealthy get wealthier and maybe a few crumbs come off the table for working families in this country.
By contrast, we are saying let's change our tax system.
Let’s stop giving money away to the top end of town.
Let's start spending on the vast bulk of working, middle class.
Because for the last three years, and indeed six years, we have been united.
We are putting all our policies out there.
You know you say you have got to give everything by the end of the election.
We will.
But the point about it is, we are putting out a lot of significant policies.
We have been upfront with the people.
We told people three years ago we intend to change the negative gearing rules, prospectively.
We told people that we wanted to go after multinationals.
You can't have it all ways, you can't say when will you tell people.
Well I've explained that I didn't understand the question that was being asked.
Let's go through each of those points rather than rapid fire, let's have a conversation.
First of all, we have outlined our policies for the last three years.
Now you say people haven't been paying attention, fair enough, that's your view.
But you can't say that we haven't been upfront.
Then you have gone to a couple of specific examples.
Now when we talk about tax relief, the fact of the matter is that for the next three years, Liberal and Labor are offering the same deal to Australian people but where the disagreement comes is this government is.
Yes, for the vast bulk of people we are offering the same thing.
You are quite right, for the three per cent of tax earners we still think we need a budget repair levy until 22-23.
So you are right there.
But the point about it is if we are going to have a proper tax system in the country, we've got to start looking after income earners as opposed to taxing capital lightly and income more heavily.
Or to put in plain English, how on earth are we a country who has the negative gearing rules or tax credit rules on shares which are unique in the world.
I don't want to be the best in the world at tax loopholes, I want to be the best in the world at cost of living relief for childcare and for kinder and for aged care and for schools and hospitals.
There couldn't have been anyone who was committing me to a preference deal.
No, not aware of that.
There is always conversations.
Hang on a second.
As you would know as a seasoned journalist, there is always plenty of conversations.
But you also understand, someone who has covered politics for a long time, that me and Labor, could not do a deal with a person who still owes the taxpayer nearly $70 million, owes workers an additional $7 million.
That's a deal breaker for us.
Only one leader in this country has done a deal with Clive Palmer.
No.
No.
We are not doing that and let's be really clear here - there is no way that you can do a preference deal without me signing off on it.
And somehow, though, what the Government is trying to do is look away from the deal they have done.
There is one question which has not been satisfactorily answered.
For Mr Morrison to give his preferences to Clive Palmer, for the Nationals, the Coalition partner, to give their preferences to One Nation, what have they promised Pauline Hanson and Clive Palmer?
The reality is for Labor the price of doing a deal with Clive Palmer, too high.
Not worth it.
Well first of all you know that we’ve offered Channel Nine the opportunity to do it through the Press Club.
You have declined.
You've declined.
I am sorry if you are busy at lunchtime.
The point about it is.
They have invented iView You know it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day -
You know, it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day and replay it.
I often see that.
But the point about it is, ABC want a debate, Channel Nine want a debate, the Press Club want a debate.
It's not really for me to sort out.
Yeah, but do you know what?
For the last six years we have been debating the Liberals.
We are talking to the people.
We've got three debates with the Government.
I tell you what I do find extraordinary.
I mean I can't sort out Nine and Two, I don't want to pick favourites.
The point about it is we are going to Western Australia because they have never had a debate before.
There is normally three debates in any federal election.
That's the precedent.
Let's go to the heart of the matter.
If we want to talk about debate, where is their industrial relations minister to talk about wages policy?
Where is their energy minister?
Where is their environment minister talking about climate change?
Where is their education minister?
This is a Government where apart from Mr Morrison, they are silencing most of their colleagues.
I enjoyed the debate.
See you.
Good morning Edwina.
The subsidy will be for parents.
If your household income is up to $68,000 we will provide a 100 per cent subsidy up to the capped amount of $11.
77 an hour, so 100 per cent.
If your household income is between $68,000 and $100,000, the subsidy is going to rise to 85 per cent of what you pay.
And then between $100,000 and $174,000 the subsidy will be somewhere between 85 per cent down to 60 per cent.
What this practically means is that for the first time after six long years of Liberal government where child care prices have gone up 24 per cent, where we hear stories of mums basically having to contribute most of their wage to their child care, this is a game-changer to help cost of living for nearly a million families, and it’s just going to make one of the biggest pressures on the family budget will be less.
In a real term, in a dollar term per year Edwina, it’s somewhere between $1,500 and $2,000 every year which families will have which won't be going on child care costs.
That’s a real help to the family budget.
Well we want the subsidy to go to the parents and what we're going to say to child care operators though is that we don't want them ramping up the prices.
I think this is important point to make.
We get that if you provide greater support for parents, there might be some child care operators who miraculously increase the fees by the subsidy which we are providing.
So we're going to ask the ACCC to monitor prices.
And what’s more is that if we see that there is some rent-taking, profit-taking by the operators, well then what we're going to do is we're going to contemplate price controls.
So in other words, before operators can increase fees, they’ve got to get the approval of the government.
So we want to make sure that the money gets to the pockets of the families.
Up to $2000, yeah.
We can afford to do this because we are making the tough economic decisions.
We want multinationals to pay more tax.
We are winding back the money that we give and negative gearing to property investors.
It is a very straightforward proposition.
It is about a choice.
Do we want to be a country who gives taxpayer subsidy to someone to buy their sixth investment property, or do we want to help everyday Aussie families, a million of them, with the cost of child care.
My view is that investing in child care is a better investment than giving a tax reward to someone who is buying their, you know multiple investment properties.
So that is how we pay for it.
Well under Scott Morrison, immigration has gone up, not down.
I mean, this is politics.
It is not about migration.
Did you know Edwina that in Australia this year alone under the Liberals, there are 1.
6 million people from overseas with visas which allow them to work in Australia, 1.
6 million.
So, Mr Morrison if he was fair dinkum would be talking about that and how we train Australians to do the jobs, rather than rely on 1.
6 million people from overseas who have got visas which give them work rights.
This is about politics, it’s not about migration.
Pure politics.
Look forward to it, cheerio.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Before we start, I'm happy to take questions in this case from the local media.
We've had a national press conference.
I'm here today to announce that because of Ross Hart's advocacy, supported by Brian Mitchell, a Labor government, if we're elected on May 18, will invest $7 million into the Royal Flying Doctor Service here in Tasmania.
Just a little bit of background of what the RFDS does in Tassie.
As you'd be aware the Royal Flying Doctor Service celebrated its 90th anniversary last year and they've been in Tassie now since 1960.
They perform a very important function in terms of healthcare in Tassie.
From the Bass Strait islands to the more remote communities.
People should realise that whilst Tasmania geographically is not as large as some of the mainland states there are a lot of remote locations.
The RFDS has been an important part of providing proper healthcare in this area.
But it needs some more money.
It needs to be properly integrated into the health system which Tasmanians receive elsewhere.
So this $7 million will go to upgrading the hangar facilities.
It will go towards providing better mental health, better dental health, better support of a whole range of local government areas.
This $7 million courtesy of Ross Hart's advocacy is part of Labor's ongoing commitment to make sure that Tasmanians enjoy the same quality of healthcare in Tasmania that people on the mainland enjoy.
Over to some local questions.
In my experience, people in the arts community throughout Australia are always pleased when the arts gets a lift anywhere.
So, I don't think that people do begrudge MONA.
That has been a private investment which has never relied on any federal support.
Our investment we are providing Tasmanian tourism is $120 million.
$50 million of that will be to MONA for public spaces, amphitheatres and the like.
Tasmania has got a world class arts and tourism story to tell and we want to make sure that flagship ventures like MONA can be used to attract people to Tassie.
When people come to Tasmania they don't just go to the south.
Labor will certainly work with the local arts community to further develop projects in the north and the north west.
We've provided some funding in our policies for Hobart airport.
What we're doing in terms of providing greater support for infrastructure in Tassie though is quite extensive.
From the Bass Highway through to the bridge through to a range of different projects.
I don't have any specific knowledge of an approach about an aerobridge but again we are in a position to talk to Tasmania about infrastructure because we have made the serious economic reform decisions.
We are not going to give money to multinationals.
We would rather see Tasmanians receive their fair share.
And if I might make the point, not about aerobridges but about health,  Labor's really proud of the fact that of all the things we are doing in Tasmania we think the fact that we are providing over $100 million specifically for health projects in Tasmania is exactly what Tasmanians are looking for.
You shouldn't have to wait longer in Tasmania for elective surgery than you do in parts of the mainland.
That's why we are very pleased with our $30 million to help blitz waiting lists in Tasmania.
When you add that on to the $15 million mental health hub we are doing in Launceston, when you look at the $4.
5 million we are doing for Tazreach to supply services in North Western Tasmania.
Add that on top of the fact that Tasmania has had $35 million cut from its hospitals, including local hospitals here in Launceston.
We are going to put all of that money back.
Add that to the fact that we are going to tackle the out of pocket costs of people seeing the GPs.
Add to that our $2.
8 billion national hospital fund which will see Tasmanian hospitals receive greater support and add to that our $2.
3 billion support to help tackle the out of pocket costs for cancer patients.
Tasmanians, the best health offering for them comes from an elected Labor government in Canberra.
There is no doubt that oral hygiene is an important part of a person's health.
It was Labor who pioneered the child dental benefit services.
I think that when you look at our health offerings though Labor has got the best offerings of the mainstream parties, indeed of the parties.
The reality is we were down here in fact just a couple of days after Parliament rose, Ross and I and Catherine King announcing greater support for people going through the fight of their lives with cancer.
So when you look at our hospital fund, when you look at the fact we are reversing cuts that this government has done to hospitals, when you look at our investment we are going to make in cancer treatment and helping with the out of pockets there.
And of course our announcement today for the Royal Flying Doctor Service, Labor really is the party you can trust when it comes to the health of Tasmanians.
We will have a look at what everyone has to say.
But I want to make it clear that if we form a government we will be a Labor government not an anything else government.
Thank you everybody.
First of all, isn't this great to be at MONA.
And it’s great to be here with David and Kirsha and the workforce here.
MONA is just.
MONA is simply fun.
Now I was saying to David as we walked down here “You know, is this world's best?
” and he said “No, it's just fun.
” But actually, I think that David is being a bit modest.
Tasmanian tourism, with the flagship which is MONA, is not only leading in Australia, it's leading throughout the world.
And it is fun.
But what Labor wants to do, is we want to back in the future of Tasmanian tourism, and we want to back in the investment which has been made by private investors in MONA.
Chloe and I came here for a 45th birthday last year with friends.
It is a fabulous centrepiece of a visit to southern Tasmania.
And when you think about MONA, it really is excellent and fun across the world.
Paris may have the Louvre, you know you've got the Guggenheim, you've got other great international exhibits, but Australia, not just Tasmania, has got the MONA.
This is fabulous.
But the money which has been invested here has been all private inspiration.
There's been no national support for a facility which is employing hundreds of people, and bringing, you know, tens and tens of thousands of tourists, not just to Tasmania, but to Australia.
So I'm really pleased to announce, in part through the hard work of our tourism spokesperson, Anthony Albanese, and our Tasmanian Labor team, spearheaded by Julie Collins, that a Labor government if elected on May 18 will invest an additional $50 million in MONA, as part of a $120 million tourism package.
The Tasmanian economy has many strings to its bow.
But tourism is certainly, I think, one of the great job generators for Tasmania.
Tasmanian tourism is famous across the mainland and famous across the world.
If you've got people who are willing to back themselves and invest in such a marvellous facility and experience, then they need a government in Canberra as committed to Tasmania, as committed to tourism, as committed to fun, as the people here are.
I'd now like to get Albo to talk further about the whole package of tourism announcements at this fabulous facility.
And in that spirit of congratulations I'll just acknowledge Bec White, Tasmanian Labor leader.
She certainly convinced us of the importance of investing in Tasmanian tourism.
I'm not sure her counterpart has had the same success today in convincing the current Prime Minister to back in Tassie like we are.
Well first of all I think it's long overdue for our First Australians to be in the nation's birth certificate, the Constitution.
I think that we've left it too long.
Now, what we will do is listen to the Uluru Statement from the Heart and we will argue the case for a voice.
It will be a fully formed proposition.
As for scare campaigns, we've already seen some in the right wing, in the extreme right wing already start to complain about including First Australians in the Constitution.
We're up for the argument.
In terms of an Australian head of state, yes Australia should have an Australian head of state.
But we have said that what we want to have is the referendum on the voice first of all.
We've actually set quite a lot aside and without taking too long on this interview I congratulate the work of Joel Fitzgibbon.
We'll have a look at what the government said today and if it makes sense we'll do it.
Because we don't approach this sort of negativity of the Government where as soon as one side of politics has an idea the other side has got to get out a big stick and whack it.
So we'll have a look at that.
But in addition, we've already offered $100 million for drought relief.
We've also said that when it comes to central Queensland, that we will invest in the Rookwood weir which is going to open up 2,000 agricultural jobs.
In Tasmania as well, I was down here a little while ago and we said that we would do tranche 3 of the irrigation projects, $100 million, which will assist to open up new land and provide greater productivity for farmers.
So we're up for helping.
And also, just for dairy farmers who have been doing it hard, we want to set a floor price for milk, which will be great assistance for them when they're dealing with the processes.
Well, Penny Wong dealt with this question comprehensively yesterday.
I'm happy to go to the key points she said.
If it wasn't because of a work-shy and lazy conservative government these laws may well have already been passed.
But as you know, what we've got is a government in Canberra who has organised Parliament to sit for 10 days in eight months so no wonder we get didn't get to it.
In terms of the actual security law what normally happens is that a parliamentary committee looks at the laws and we've got a unanimous position, both Labor and the others, so there's no reason why we couldn't do it in the first week back.
But let's go back to the reason why we don't have it.
The Morrison government cancelled Parliament so many times, they didn't want to sit, they're work-shy.
So if Mr Morrison is looking to blame someone for a failure of national security, he should buy a mirror because that's the face he should blame.
Well, let's go to the heart of the matter.
I think it’s wrong that we don't have our First Australians in our Constitution.
I guess you’d probably agree with me.
Isn't it time in Australia that after 120 years that we actually said that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders should be in our Constitution?
So I think it's not so much the difficulty of the debate but why don't we put just some of our Australians and give them the same recognition that all other Australians have.
In terms of the head of state business, we’ve said we'd have a plebiscite not a full referendum in our first term.
But we will advance on recognition of our First Australians.
But that's not all that we're going to do.
We want to close the gap.
Your skin colour in this country should not be the reason why you do better or worse.
So I think it's not a question of symbolic recognition or practical work, it’s about doing all of it.
We'll work with people and this goes to the broader issues in these elections.
The Morrison government, by its desperate deals with extreme right wing parties, is promising us if they get elected, a return to the chaos, a return to the cuts of the last six years.
I mean, what we see is it won't just be Constitutional recognition of our First Australians which becomes endangered.
It will be the whole business of government.
Imagine what we won't get done in this country under a Morrison-Palmer-Hanson Government.
This is a government who is, you know, there's an old saying and I think that Mr Morrison is going to learn the truth of this in this election campaign, that if you lie down with dogs, you’re going to get up with fleas.
First of all, whether or not there were conversations, I would not sign off on any deal with Mr Palmer until he resolves the issue of the tens of millions of dollars that he owes taxpayers and workers.
Now I’m not going to be like Mr Morrison who sort of very coyly pretends he doesn't know what’s going on in the administrative wing of his party.
A deal like that, the leader’s got to be aware of.
And I think that Mr Morrison’s got to come clean on what he’s promised Mr Palmer.
Are we really to believe that when you do a deal with Mr Palmer he just gives you something for free?
That is not that gentleman's track record.
That is not that gentleman’s track record.
So if there have been conversations to find out what Mr Palmer is up to, well that is as it is.
But no deals from Labor.
Because, and I think it's a legitimate question which you should be asking Mr Morrison, what arrangements has he made to get from Mr Palmer the hundreds of millions of dollars that he owes the Commonwealth and owes the debtors?
How is it that this bloke, this Mr Morrison who’s always up on the high ground, always on his soap box, you know, parading his morality, yet you know, when it comes to doing a deal with Mr Palmer, he puts all of that aside, gets to the bottom of the barrel.
What is Mr Morrison doing as the prime minister, doing a deal with Mr Palmer, when Mr Palmer owes his workers and owes taxpayers tens of millions of dollars?
I’d like to get Anthony’s take on this, because he has done negotiations, not on the preferences, but with some of these crazy crossbenchers who the government keeps trying to desperately prop up.
First of all the election is not over.
And what we're warning Australians is you have now seen, Mr Morrison has shown his hand.
A vote for Scott Morrison is a vote for Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson.
What we now see is the prospect, if they are successful, of the most extreme right-wing government in Australia's history.
We see the prospect of the most chaotic, risky government in Australia's history.
Does anyone really believe that when you sit down with One Nation or you sit down with Palmer, that they're just giving preferences, One Nation and Palmer, to the Liberal Party and the LNP out of the goodness of their heart?
That somehow it's an act of charity?
Of course it's not.
And the question you have got to ask the government, is what promises have been made.
Do we have to water down our gun laws?
Do we have to forgive Clive Palmer's debt which he owes the taxpayers and the workers?
What is the deal.
I mean old Morrison here, he's a very sneaky operator.
I mean you could ask Malcolm Turnbull that.
But he is a sneaky operator.
In Melbourne and in Sydney and in Hobart and Launceston he says Oh no, we don't like One Nation, we'll put them below Labor.
But up in Queensland where it really matters, he's given a sly nudge and a wink to his mate the Deputy Prime Minister, the Nationals, and to his party in Queensland you can do whatever deal you want.
Well that's not on.
The real issue here is do Australians want the prospect of the next three years of cuts, chaos, desperate behaviour by the Morrison-Palmer-Hanson government.
First of all, yesterday Channel Two said what about us, and Channel Nine said what about us, and you complained about Channel Seven had an interview and Sky.
So I thought the neatest and cleanest solution was to have you all in the same room at the National Press Club.
We're happy to do it at lunch time.
The good news is they have invented i-view.
They can play it in the evening if you want to.
We are happy to debate.
But the other point is if we are going to talk about debates how have you gone finding Melissa Price?
There should be a search party sent out to check on her whereabouts.
Because we haven't had a debate on the environment or climate change between their ministers.
And have they got the Minister for Industrial Relations out of witness protection?
Where's the wages policy debate?
And apparently Dan Tehan won't do one debate with Tanya Plibersek.
[inaudible]
Why is it that Liberals whenever they see a new idea, a good idea, find an excuse not to do it?
Let's talk about it.
When the Liberals say that Tasmania shouldn't get some AFL funding, they need to explain why they are running around on mainland Australia providing AFL funding for the Swans, providing AFL funding for Collingwood.
This is a government, a Liberal government nationally who wants to treat Tassie as second class.
But let's go to some of the issues which we think are in touch.
Jobs are an in touch issue.
This will generate jobs.
But what I also think is an in touch issue where the Liberals are nowhere within any close range of us is health funding.
Did you know that we have already announced $100 million-plus of specific health projects for Tasmania.
Because we don't think that Tasmanians because they live in Tasmania should have longer waiting lists than the mainland.
Because we think that in Tasmania if you've got a diagnosis of cancer, you should be able to access metastatic cancer nurses just like they can elsewhere.
Prostate nurses just like they can elsewhere.
And when you look at what we are doing on health, that's just specific projects.
Did you know because of our $2.
8 billion hospital fund, we're going to see greater investment and reverse the cuts to Tasmanian hospitals that have occurred?
Did you know because of our $2.
3 billion plan to turbocharge Medicare, to help practically remove a lot of the out of pocket costs for cancer treatment, that is going to be of massive benefit to Tasmanians.
And of course, let's not forget Labor's commitment to restore and start increasing the patient rebate when you go and see the GP.
When you look at it, when it comes from tourism and jobs, when it comes to providing Tasmania some equal status in grassroots footy as they do on the mainland, or indeed to a fundamental issue like health, Labor has got all points over the Liberals.
Maybe what the Tasmanian Liberals should do is rather than being a cheer squad for cuts and chaos to Tasmania from Canberra, maybe they should take a leaf out of Bec White's book and start fighting for Tasmania.
Thank you, catch you soon.
Good afternoon everybody.
Today Labor has launched its policy for Australian women.
I am very proud of the policy and I am proud of the fact that Labor has so many talented women presenting themselves for election and contributing to this and all of our policies.
Labor has outlined a vision to help close the gender pay gap between men and women in Australia.
And very importantly, we're urgently committed to contributing $660 million to tackle the scourge of family violence.
I'd now like to introduce Tanya Plibersek, and I congratulate her and Penny and the whole team.
You know, it's exciting.
If Labor wins this election on May 18th, for the first time in the nation's history a government will be made up of half women parliamentarians.
Over to Tanya.
Thanks, Tanya.
Are there any questions on today's policy launch or any other matters?
Listen, I only found out about this overnight.
I think he has been incredibly stupid.
He's not running in a winnable spot, but we've told him, I understand the party has told him to take it down and apologise straightaway.
Let me be the healer!
First of all, on the debates, we do have two scheduled.
I'm really pleased that I'm going to Western Australia to do the debate.
They haven't had a big debate like this before.
It's been a little bit of a negotiation to get it right, but I think we're there.
We've got another debate scheduled with Sky in Brisbane.
We've got two debates.
Let's see how they go.
I'm open to doing more.
But I also would just note that this sudden belated interest in the Liberal Party in debating us - these people have invented the part-time Parliament.
I'm not even talking about the Member for Manila.
We had seven sitting days in eight months.
If Mr Morrison wants to spend a lot of time listening to me, he can always vote for me.
Actually, on debates, there is another point, now you come to mention it.
Why on earth is this government hiding all of its ministers?
I'm up for debates with Mr Morrison.
We've got two scheduled already.
But gee whiz, they're hard to find, some of these government ministers, aren't they?
We should almost set a little prize - you know, where on earth is Melissa Price?
Environment, climate change, we can't get a debate there.
Industrial relations, wages policy, the issue that dare not speak its name in Coalition ranks?
How about a debate on workplace relations?
And how about that hoary old chestnut for the Government, a National Integrity Commission?
Surprise, surprise - does this government want its Attorney-General to debate our Shadow Attorney-General?
No way.
I mean, with all of the scandals engulfing this government, from Paladin to Manus to Helloworld to goodness knows what's gone on with Eastern Agriculture.
No wonder Mr Morrison is keeping many of his ministers in witness protection because he's too embarrassed by them or too afraid of what they'll say.
We haven't rejected them.
But, first of all, we've got two scheduled.
And secondly, let's get a few of those shadow ministers out and a few of the government ministers out, and we're certainly open to doing it.
The other thing is - let's see how the government goes answering questions in these two debates.
If they're good affairs, then we're happy to do more of them.
Three.
I was there.
There was a Facebook one which I'll - of course, who was I debating then?
Malcolm Turnbull.
First of all, that was an eight-week election and we fit three in.
This is a five-week election.
We've committed to two.
And again, let me just say - very open.
It'll be a bit of an arm-wrestle between Channel Nine and the ABC for the third one.
But the point about it is - where are Mr Morrison's ministers?
Mr Morrison wants to say it's just about him and me.
That's fine.
I'll debate him.
But the point about it is it’s also about the policies.
The biggest issues in Australia at the moment.
Wages, everything's going up except wages, but can we get the minister in charge of wages policy?
Nup.
And climate change?
Why on earth?
Where's this Melissa Price?
She goes from success story to success story, doesn't she?
I mean, we've just found out about a uranium mine, miraculously approved, in the teeth of a West Australian state court hearing, the day before an election.
What a coincidence.
I'll get some of my shadows here to add to this.
Yes, we can.
What will guarantee the pay equity gap persisting for the next 50 years is if you vote for Scott Morrison at the next election.
We've got fair-dinkum policies.
We're going to announce some more on Sunday.
We are about closing the gap.
Whatever improvements have been made in the last six years is because no wages have risen.
But the point about it is, we are going to say to big business, don't hide behind pay-secrecy contracts anymore.
We want to see what you're paying the men in your organisation and the women.
And if you're not paying them the same, why not?
If not, why not?
We're going to make a requirement of our procurement, we want to see what is actually happening for companies bidding for Commonwealth work.
Why should a company who pays its men and women equally be at a financial disadvantage to a company who doesn't when they're bidding for Commonwealth work?
You should try them.
Actually, I did say my colleagues would talk a little more.
Sorry, someone did ask me a question before about the uranium mine.
I just want to say on that, this is yet again looking like another shonky deal by this government.
Pretty big decision.
Lot of money at stake.
Made in the dead of night, the day before the election's called, miraculously, straight afterwards.
It's apparently the most important decision the government had to make before it immediately called an election to go to the Australian people.
There are questions for this government to answer here.
Yet again, though, why on earth do we have the minister who is doing the approvals in hiding?
It is a legitimate question for you to ask the Prime Minister, why is it that, on everything from climate change to the approval of this uranium mine, that the minister involved just can't be found?
Listen, this bloke should be ashamed of himself, playing political games especially in the shadow of the shocking Sri Lankan murders.
He should be ashamed of himself.
Is there no … he loves to be on the high ground, this Prime Minister, but he never fails to reach for the bottom of the barrel when it suits him.
I'll get Penny to explain why this Prime Minister should be ashamed of himself.
I'm proud of our team and I'm proud of our policies.
[JOURNALIST ASKING QUESTION].
Come on.
I know you want me to speed up my answers, but four words!
OK.
We're putting forward proper policies.
Let's tell the truth of the first two weeks.
This government doesn't talk about you or the people.
They've got no plan.
They don't talk about climate change.
They've spent one day on health and said that's all they're going to say on health, even though the out-of-pocket costs are going up.
They have no plan to match our proposition to help cancer patients, for example.
On TAFE today, they're offering $60 million.
Let me give you a couple of simple numbers.
150,000 people less are doing apprenticeships now than six years ago.
$3 billion worth of cuts in vocational education, and they offer $60 million?
This is a government who just hopes the people have got a short memory.
They have nothing positive to say about Australia.
The reason why we're doing a women's policy launch today is because we are excited by what we can do for Australian women and the Australian people.
The reason why we are so committed to investing, for example, in helping people in Medicare with the greatest expansion with the helping of their costs of cancers.
We've got a vision for the future.
I guarantee you all Mr Morrison can say is yell out "Liar, liar!
"  That's all he can do.
You guys should keep a count - every time he says it.
He's been bottle-fed by a focus group to say, "If you just keep attacking Bill, then somehow they'll make you forget their disunity and chaos.
" What is shameful about this fellow is he's always up on the hill giving the preaching lecture, he’s always saying ‘I’m such a good fellow’, but then he reaches for the bottom of the barrel.
He's trying to confuse people, saying we're taking their utes, which we're not.
He's trying to say we're introducing a death tax, which we're not.
He's tried to say somehow we’ve delayed security legislation when in fact we had a unanimous position.
So he's wrong on that.
This fellow knows that the only chance they have is to totally talk about me and not talk about their own policies, and to scare people about the future.
This election, I believe in the first two weeks, has shown two diametrically different paths.
One path is the low road.
Just nothing good to say about anyone, every excuse in the world about everything, why he can't do something.
Now we find out he's cosying up to the extremists in the Senate, cosying up to Mr Palmer, who owes the taxpayer $67 million.
Whereas what we've chosen to do - sure, we've got our tough things to say on them - but we're also saying what we're going to do for the people.
We've got a wages policy - they don't.
We've got a climate change policy - they don't.
We've got a policy to provide the equal treatment of women - they don't.
We've got a vocational training policy to make sure that we've fixed up all the mess they've made - they don't.
And we've got a policy, in fact, to make sure that we can help our health system with the best expansion in a generation.
So, yeah, it'll be up to the judgement of the people, and that's what we're gonna focus on.
Let me know how you go with Morrison and what his candidate for Macnamara has said about people close to me, alright?
So let's not start giving a lecture here.
I've said this bloke is incredibly stupid.
Has Morrison said that the candidate for Macnamara is incredibly stupid, which she is?
Has Morrison actually set a standard for his own candidates that he's setting for ours?
I understand this bloke shouldn't have said it.
He's No.
4 on the Senate ticket, not running in a marginal seat like Macnamara, but that doesn't excuse it.
Stupid conduct is stupid conduct.
And by the way if you want to talk about who you're supporting and not supporting, why on earth is he putting an out-and-out crackpot like Fraser Anning in the seat of Capricornia ahead of Labor?
Why on earth is he preferencing One Nation with that person in the Hunter Valley?
Seriously.
If you want to talk about quality control in political parties have a look at the Palmer United Party.
Have a look at the One Nation Party.
Have a look at the Liberal Party.
We know that the bargaining system's not working as it should.
But I'm not convinced that we need to have, you know, everyone going into industry bargaining.
What we think with our wages policy is very straightforward.
Reverse the penalty-rate cuts.
Pay equity for women.
And we're going to have more to say on that very soon.
We want to shut down sham contracting.
We want to make sure that enterprise bargaining is fairer.
And we want to have a living wage, and we want to reform labour hire.
No.
You know in elections, I'm sure there's plenty of conversations go on.
There have been no formal negotiations and furthermore, let's go to the heart of the matter why we think Mr Morrison's made such a dreadful error of judgment here.
The reality is that in 2016 Queensland Nickel, of which Mr Palmer has a great interest, went into administration.
That was the beginning of the year.
What happened then is that workers were left with entitlements.
We understand - I'm not even talking about all the creditors, small businesses - of about $74 million.
What then happened is that, under the law of the land, where workers are out of pocket, the Commonwealth steps in with a safety-net payment, and then the Commonwealth seeks repayment from the company which has gone belly-up.
Mr Morrison was the Treasurer who, in about April 2016, authorised the payment of about $67 million to the workers from the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth stands in the shoes of the workers to seek recovery from Queensland Nickel.
Now, I think that it is actually beyond a joke that, on one hand, you've got a businessman running around spending $30 million - and some of it in your own organisations, advertising in your own organisations.
He's found $30 million to put his own head all over Australia on those billboards.
The government has done a deal with him.
Only one leader in Australia's done a deal with Mr Palmer.
Now, this government - what is their plan?
What have they promised Palmer?
Because I tell you, when you deal with Palmer, the idea that it's just a non-exchange arrangement with Clive Palmer would be the first time in human history.
And then, what is the detail?
What is Mr Morrison doing to recover the money that taxpayers are owed by Queensland Nickel?
And it would have been a precondition for us to go to the heart of the matter.
It's a deal-breaker for Labor to have a businessman and try and seek and do a deal on their preferences without sorting out the money owed to the taxpayer and to the workers.
I don't know anything about that at all.
I don't know anything about it.
Violence is completely unacceptable.
Well, my aim is to get as many of our people elected first.
I do think that Mr Morrison as the current Prime Minister should explain how he's going to recover the money owed to the taxpayers.
At the end of the day it's not about Mr Morrison, Clive Palmer or myself.
It's about whether or not you think it's appropriate for a major political party to enter into a self-serving deal but at the same time see taxpayers out of pocket for $67 million.
This is the chaos of the government.
You know, someone asked earlier about the election of the last two weeks.
One thing's clear.
This government is increasingly desperate.
The fact that they won't stop the Nationals, their Coalition partners, their bosom buddies, from doing a deal with One Nation shows their desperation.
The fact that you've got Coalition Members of Parliament preferencing Fraser Anning very high up the ticket after all of what he has said.
The fact that you've got a prime minister of Australia up on the high moral ground always saying how good they are but reaching to the bottom of the barrel with a Palmer deal.
Never forget what happened last time Palmer got elected.
Never forget.
And, you know, four senators, three political parties - the chaos of those years.
Listen, I might finish up - Penny Wong's had to serve in the Senate and seen what happens when the Liberals and Nationals cosy up to the extreme right and the desperate and dateless of the far right, and I think that we should hear from Penny about what happened.
Thanks, everybody.
Anzac Day is arguably Australia's sacred day.
It doesn't matter if you're of any faith or none, it is a day where the whole nation stops to reflect upon the courage of young Australian men 104 years ago and all of the service by all of the women and men of the Defence Forces and their families since then.
And of course, we celebrate Anzac Day and dawn services commemorating the landings at Gallipoli all around Australia, at RSLs in big cities and small towns.
And we celebrate and commemorate it on foreign fields.
That is why it's deeply concerning of reports of a violent Islamist extremist who's been arrested we are told, because they were planning a terrorist act against people commemorating the landings at Gallipoli.
This is deeply concerning.
I'd urge Australians who have family overseas - and indeed Australians travelling overseas - to please check with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade travel advisory.
It is currently advising a high level of caution for people there.
Listen, today is not a day for politics.
We don't know much more than what we've heard on the news.
I think today, I'd like to confine my remarks to ANZAC Day.
And of course, just encourage Australians who have family members travelling, check with the DFAT, check with your family, but we've just got to proceed with caution and care.
I think that Australians can make a choice about the world.
We can make a choice that it's too scary, we should never leave home, that it is too confronting and too difficult to navigate.
I don't have that view.
Just because there are terrorists in the world, we can't let them win by discouraging our young people from travelling.
I've got teenagers, they're not quite at the age of travelling overseas, but I imagine in the next couple of years they will.
I hope they do.
We're going to try and teach them to be as careful as they can.
But Anzac Day, as I said, is a sacred day.
We can't afford to let these extremists discourage us.
On the other hand, we've got to maintain the utmost care.
And that's why I for one, am grateful that we live in a country with such capable security services, police services and Defence services.
Thanks Cathy.
Today, we are focused on local workers, better wages and better jobs for Queenslanders and for Australians.
My message to the Australian wage earners, to millions of middle class and working class Australians is that May 18th, and the vote on May 18th, is the last chance for three years to get wages moving, to reverse the cuts to penalty rates, to do something about reforming long term permanent casuals, to make sure that we clamp down on rorts in 457 visas, to reform labour hire.
My message is that on May 18th it is your last chance for three years.
Because if the current mob are returned, the divided, dysfunctional anti-worker government mob we currently have in Canberra are returned, they are going to take an election victory as a green light to continue for the next three years in the same ramshackle, pro top end of town manner, which they have been doing for the last six years and that hasn’t helped Australian workers.
We want to stand up for Australian workers.
We want to make sure they get better pay and better quality of work.
This Government just wants to cut schools and hospitals, cut penalty rates, so they can give tax cuts to the top end of town.
What I would like to do is ask Jason Clare to talk about our exciting infrastructure announcements and talk about a few of the issues we have just gone through.
I have made it clear that we have no plans to review it.
Our position is that the deals have to stack up commercially.
We'll be guided by the best science.
I'm going to implement the law of the land.
No more, no less and of course, we're not going to engage in sovereign risk.
Good money.
Union - union contract, just saying.
No Mark, that isn't the conversation.
What I said is that I understood his point of view.
He's frustrated, he does a lot of overtime, and he wants to make sure that he's making ends meet.
What I have made very clear, on many occasions, is that in 2022-2023, we will remove the Budget repair levy.
So that's when the Budget will be in a proper surplus, and sustainable.
So absolutely, I can say to people, that we get that everybody feels they're paying too much income tax in this country, but it's a matter of priorities.
I have said, and I don't often do this, but you know they publish me correctly - but in The Australian - six months ago they reported me as saying exactly what I was saying yesterday.
That in fact, we would like to lower income taxes for everybody, but you have got to do it when it's sustainable.
The other point I made to that worker is that this government's tax cuts are on the never-never.
Like, why is Mr Morrison ducking and weaving and not saying how much he's going to give away to the top two or three percent?
I understand the number is $77 billion.
But that - no one in the government is willing to own up to the fact that they want to give an $11,000 - an annual tax cut, to millionaires, and $11 a week to most people.
And what this government won't do, is not only have they been caught out shovelling truck loads of money to the top end, but they won't say how they're going to pay for it.
What I won't say to workers, is that I'll give you a tax cut and then cut your hospitals and your schools at the same time.
Labor has got a sensible plan, well funded.
The big problem in this country is that capital in this country is taxed lightly, and income is taxed heavily.
You know, on your capital gains tax, you get half of that tax free.
If you own the shares, and the dividends, you get a 30 per cent gift from the government.
Capital is taxed lightly, but income earners, top right down to the bottom, and there's many more at the bottom in this country, they don't get a fair deal from this Government.
Sorry I’m just going to, we have said on the record in The Australian newspaper that we would like to do more on tax.
I don't blame you if you missed it but the point is we’ve also said on the Budget repair levy, that 2 per cent, that we would like to remove it in 2022-23.
I've been up front, up front six months ago, up front yesterday, up front today.
But where is Mr Morrison?
Why won't he be up front?
) No, let's get to this.
I'm not going to let him run around the country taking his happy pills and having his little photos and getting away with serious scrutiny.
You know, the Prime Minister's job isn't to be the court jester, it’s to be the man with the plan with the answers.
I’ve got the plan and I’ve got the answers.
Yep.
This is an acknowledgement that there's something very suspicious about the water buybacks conducted under this government.
This is an acknowledgement that there are questions to answer.
We have taken a methodical approach to this unfolding scandal.
We contacted the Department of Agriculture, we asked them to provide us with documents, a series of documents.
Guess what?
Time came for the documents to be provided, time went, no documents.
We think a Commission of Inquiry has the powers of a Royal Commission.
It's set up under the Royal Commission Act 1902.
But we don't think this should be an inordinately long inquiry or an inordinately expensive inquiry but the people are owed the truth.
This is one of the many reasons why I'm also backing a national Anti-Corruption Commission because under this government there is too much dodgy behaviour when it comes to money and the Government and the Ministers.
For example, you have the Paladin contract.
We all know that's been desperately swept under the carpet.
We know that you’ve got the ongoing saga which is Hello World.
And now you’ve got Eastern Agricultural Services.
There is a pattern of events with this government which goes to a very fundamental question about their honesty in administering money and a Commission of Inquiry is exactly the right way to go.
No, not at all.
First of all, the questions which came in came in on a range of matters and I answered the questions that were put to me by the interpreters in the room.
But let me make my view clear.
On Huawei, and I have said it plenty of times, I'll take the national security advice.
When it comes to taking foreign donations, we led and the Government followed.
So our view’s very clear.
What I’ve also said though about our relations with China is they shouldn't be viewed through the strategic prism of disaster.
In other words, you've got to reach out and deal with the Chinese Government not just in the sort of worst case scenario strategic threat, but as economic opportunity and as a country we've had so many exchanges between people to people, business to business.
Sorry, hang on.
Sorry Dan I’m going to share the questions.
Do you know I haven't given a single question yet to a woman journalist?
And I'm going to do that.
The question which I answered, the question which I was asked was do you have any plans to review Adani.
I say I have no plans to review Adani, full stop.
Melissa Price, there’s a name you don't often hear in federal politics.
She’s the Environment Minister.
Let's get her out of witness protection to explain was she was bullied or not, but I go back to your other question, we have no plans to review the Adani approvals.
No I concede my messaging on it is entirely consistent.
If we want to talk about candidates, have you guys met this number three LNP candidate in Queensland, the guy who thinks that three year old child care is a Labor conspiracy?
Or have you met their candidate in Melbourne Ports who just clearly says, much prefers private schools to government schools?
If you want to look at erratic candidates, why on earth is Mr Morrison not accounting - does he agree with candidate X or candidate Y?
In terms of my own candidate, I have good candidates, they're working very hard, I couldn't be happier.
I think it's a really stupid ad.
I think it’s grossly disrespectful to 150,000 surf lifesavers.
In terms of GetUp they're independent from us.
Some of the stuff they say I haven't agreed with, some of the stuff in the past I have.
But this ad – well out of line.
You can have your disagreements with Tony Abbott but I respect the fact that he's a surf lifesaver.
My backbenchers have got plenty of views, that's life.
We don't run a dictatorship.
Cathy O'Toole is a north Queenslander first and foremost, she's got a very clear position.
But at the end of the day, the Labor Cabinet will make the decisions and we have no plans to review Adani.
No I haven't.
Go ahead.
I’ve said I was sceptical of it and I was.
I’ve said that I was sceptical of it …
I have said that I was sceptical of it because they missed so many deadlines.
Now they have filled some of those deadlines.
When I said I was sceptical of it, that’s because they've had more false starts than a horse race.
Hang on, the reality is they seem to have found their commercial finance so that’s that.
But in terms of the science, the law, sovereign risk - we will be governed by the law.
That has been our position.
Because we are actually going to reduce.
Sorry, just go back to that.
I was very clear that I understand why people who are income earners in this country think they are paying too much tax.
We have got a plan to take the Budget repair surplus of the Budget repair levy off when the Budget gets to 1 per cent surplus under a Labor Government, which is 2022- 2023.
But I also concluded my conversation by saying that the current fellow is promising you a tax cut but he is not explaining how he pays for it.
You and I both know, in fact we all here know, Mr Morrison hasn't owned up that he is going to give $77 billion to the top 2 or 3 per cent and he hasn't said how he is going to pay for it.
The Australia Institute belled the cat when it said that it would be up to $40 billion worth of cuts.
The only way this fellow can sustain any promises is he has to get re-elected twice and then he has to do so by cutting services like schools and hospitals.
That is not the way we will do tax reform.
What we will do on tax reform is look after the vast bulk of people and as you all know, for those of you who heard what I said in 2018 in our Budget reply, we had bigger, better, fairer tax cuts.
Now the Government has caught up and so we have matched them there.
But when it comes to tax reform we will do it but we will not do it on the basis of cutting schools and hospitals.
No we've actually said previously, and you can go to The Australian newspaper six months ago, we said quite a bit that we will take off the Budget repair levy in 22-23.
Beyond that, we said that when we can afford to lower income taxes in this country we will.
But what we won't do is rob Peter to pay Paul.
What we won't do is deny three and four-year-olds universal kindergarten because of unfunded tax cuts to the top end.
We had a brief interchange.
I have seen the latest government comment.
This is a Coalition in complete climate chaos.
They are completely divided.
The only chance of real action on climate change, the only chance of lower energy prices sustainably in the long run is voting Labor on May 18.
That just shows you this is an economy with - zero per cent is a problem.
It's actually below what the Reserve Bank forecasts is good.
If there's no inflation in this quarter, that tells you this is an economy running on empty.
It shows you that people have stopped spending money and do you know why they have stopped spending money?
Because wages aren't moving.
That is not a healthy number.
What that means is that we are going down and down and down.
Do not be fooled.
When an economy is shrinking or when it has that sort of number, that's not what the Reserve Bank thinks is good monetary outcomes or good monetary policy for the nation.
What it tells me is this nation's growth is very fragile.
What it shows me is that this Government's budget is already in disarray.
What it shows me is that people are closing their wallets and purses because they are spending household savings just to make ends meet.
I'm not fussed at all.
I do not feel censored by the Chinese Government.
I left the setting up of my WeChat account to the Labor Party.
So you'll have to ask them how they set it up.
But I don't feel censored.
I don't feel censored by either the Government, the Greens, One Nation or indeed the Chinese Government.
I didn't know about that.
But I'll be guided by the Australian Government on this matter.
I'll be guided by whatever the security views are.
Be guided by whatever the Turkish Government says here.
I don't know what all the circumstances.
So my gut reaction is don't comment until you know what is happening.
Because gas is going to be a transition baseload energy source of the future.
What we also need to do as we move towards 45 per cent is we’ve still got to make sure we got an Australian manufacturing sector.
Therefore, opening up the gas reserves will ensure cheap domestic gas for Australia, so we can keep tens of thousands of people in their jobs in the south-east and indeed in Darwin and Brisbane.
I did say last question, guys.
But I'll see you at the next gig.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
That was Zac Beers, Labor's candidate here in Flynn, very energetic.
Good to be here at Gladstone Port and the message we have for the people of Gladstone is that the Liberals cut wages, they cut penalty rates and they send jobs overseas.
By contrast, Labor will protect penalty rates, stand up for workers and make sure that locals get the opportunity to get the jobs.
My colleagues are here today and they’ll take detailed questions on what we're announcing but the short summary of our propositions today is first of all, we need to reform the temporary work visa system of guest workers coming in from overseas.
I'm not sure if most Australians realise but there’s 1.
6 million people currently in Australia with visas which give them work rights.
Surely some of those jobs could go to Australians.
Now we are always going to have skilled migration, we are always going to have temporary workers in this country.
But we should be a country who doesn't have a temporary worker filling a skills shortage one day longer than it takes to train an Australian.
This is at the heart of our story.
457 visas, when they were started, were a good idea for Australian business.
Now 457s means that locals are missing out on jobs.
So what we want to do is put some more transparency, we want to make sure short-term skilled migration doesn't just become an excuse for cheap labour, exploitation of guest workers and locals missing out.
That is why we're outlining today our fantastic package to provide training and apprenticeships in Queensland, and not just Queensland but right across Australia.
We've got a $1 billion package to make sure that Australians get the chance to be trained for the jobs for the future.
But our proposal to look after workers in Queensland and look after jobs right around Australia doesn't just stop at reforming the temporary work visa problems.
What we also want to do is get more investment flowing in northern Australia.
The Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund has been an abject failure.
It is incredible that not one cent of a $5 billion Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund, promised by the Liberals six years ago, not one cent has been spent in Queensland.
Perhaps even more significantly the Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund has probably spent more money on salaries for people who work for the Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund than it has on building infrastructure in northern Australia.
This has simply got to stop.
So Labor today is proposing new changes to the Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund, especially to unlock the opportunities of tourism with $1 billion of the $5 billion going to tourism infrastructure and another $1.
5 billion to support the biggest single investment in new pipelines in Australia so we can get gas flowing from where it is under the ground in Australia to help keep the manufacturing jobs of South-East Australia and Darwin and Queensland going.
A lot of Australians pull me up in the street and say it is incredible that for a country that has so much gas in the ground, why Australia pays such high gas prices and that’s undermining Australian jobs.
I would like to hand over to Jason Clare to very briefly talk about our Northern Australia announcement and then we will be into questions.
I have no plans to review the approvals.
But if we want to be fair dinkum, let's be fair dinkum and let's tell the voters the truth here, all of us.
First of all if I'm Prime Minister I will adhere to the law of the land.
I'm not going to be intimidated or bullied by environmental activists or big mining companies.
For me it is all about the best science, the law of the land and not creating sovereign risk.
It doesn't matter if it's a union who comes to me or a business, an environmental activist.
What I'll do if Prime Minister, is I'll work with all of those interests, but I'm not going to be the servant of any of those interests.
We will adhere to the science, we will adhere to the law, we won't create sovereign risk.
But what we're also doing today, is we are refusing to let the debate about sustainable quality jobs in Australia be dumbed down to one project.
For the record, Queensland currently exports 220 million tonnes of coal.
For the record, under a state Labor government, in the last few years 30 resources projects have been approved.
For the record, we're going to make Gladstone ground zero for hydrogen expansion and development in Australia.
For the record, we're going to invest in a new network of pipelines to provide cheap energy for manufacturing around Australia.
We're not going to put all our eggs in one basket.
And what we're going to do, is make sure that the rules are followed.
And talking of the rules, what on earth is Mr Morrison doing by not launching a judicial inquiry into the growing scandal around the allocation of $80 million to Eastern Australia Agricultural Services.
He should stop running and hiding, stop backing up ministers where we have no line of sight in the decisions that have been made.
Every day goes by, the suspicions grow, but I put Mr Morrison on notice.
It won't be good enough if you just want to have some administrative tick box review.
I believe that unless the department provides all of the paper work, not with a big black Texta marking out all the interesting details, but the fair dinkum paperwork, without the redactions, without the secret squirrel business which this government loves.
It should be a judicial inquiry where you have got the power to compel witnesses and you have got the power to get to the bottom.
Not some sort of administrative review, which you want to have when you actually don't want to have a review, but you you’re just seen to have a review.
No.
And let's just be clear on that.
No.
We think that the problem in Australia is that everything is going up except your wages.
And we want to see enterprise bargaining resuscitated.
We want to see a crackdown on dodgy labour hire.
We welcome temporary skilled guest labour in this country but not when it becomes an excuse for not training Australians and for employing people in exploitative cheap labour arrangements which undermine the jobs security and lead to a very poor experience for guest workers.
Listen I'm not going to get - sorry, there's only one person who has ever been resurrected and I'm not going to compare Clive Palmer to him.
The point about it is, I'm not going to get distracted by Clive Palmer.
If you want better health care in this country, vote Labor.
If you want to get wages moving in this country again, vote Labor.
If you want the pensioners to get a better deal, vote Labor.
If you want to tackle the cost of living, vote Labor.
If you want to make sure your three and four year olds get quality child care and it is not exorbitantly expensive, vote Labor.
That's our game, the primary vote.
I think that is one of the questions of the ages.
The member for Manila, but Jason's been our representative in northern Australia so I might get him to talk further.
To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate believes three year old child care is a political conspiracy.
To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate is a supporting a 12 per cent corporate tax rate, which is a massive tax cut for the big end of town.
And certainly no Labor candidate believes that the Bureau of Meteorology is engaged in some conspiracy to hide the facts on climate change.
The LNP has got a factory at an undisclosed location where they can find candidates so out of touch with the real world it is remarkable.
Now what sort of serious policies is Mr.
Morrison offering Australia when they're running a candidate in a winnable position who believes that the Bureau of Meteorology's engaged in a conspiracy to not tell the truth on climate change?
This is the problem with the LNP, they're divided, they're chaotic, they are held together by sticky tape and rubber bands.
Mr Morrison should distance himself from the madness of some of the views we are seeing from some of the LNP but he can't, can he?
Because he is a captive of the hard right of the Liberal Party and he's never satisfactorily explained why Malcolm Turnbull is still not Prime Minister of Australia.
Oh, two questions, OK.
First of all on the pledge, no I am not going to sign it.
But you can deduce from that nothing other than I am not going to sign a pledge.
We're very clear.
For us, resources projects have to stack up scientifically and they have to stack up without requiring taxpayer money.
That's how we think.
That is our policy.
But I, for one, am happy if I've got local candidates who are backing the strong views of their community.
To be fair to Zac at this stage in his career he is not running for Prime Minister, although he has got excellent talent as I think you are already seeing.
I'm running for Prime Minister of Australia.
The thing which is really annoying Australians is short term politics.
You go this way and that way.
Well that is not for me.
What we will do is adhere to the law, no sovereign risk, back the science.
I will get Brendan to supplement the answer.
We are not going to pick a final number but I will state this.
The current adult wage for an adult is too low.
It is too low.
So we do want to see a rise.
Under the Liberals we're experiencing massive wage stagnation.
The last thing this government wants to do is talk about wages.
But this election is a referendum on the cost of living and of course wage stagnation.
Of course the ACTU wants to see a movement in the minimum wage and an improvement in the wages situation.
Let me remind you of some numbers which Australian households know very well.
And I want to say to the Australian people today - I understand the costs of child care have increased massively.
I understand the cost of going to see the doctor, the out of pockets, has increased.
I understand that energy prices have gone up.
I understand that wages are standing still or going backwards in the case of cuts to penalty rates and other sectors of the economy.
I understand that people are dipping into their household savings to make ends meet.
That's why Labor has a wages policy.
It's a gaping hole in the government's re-election campaign that they do not have a wages policy.
Mathias Cormann, the right-hand numbers man of Mr Morrison, the current Prime Minister, made it very clear that low wages are part of the economic architecture of this government.
If you want to keep low wages in Australia and you want to keep wages stagnant and if you want to keep falling behind cost of living, then this government has got a plan for you but if you want to get ahead in life, this government hasn't got a plan.
Over to Brendan.
Well, first of all, we've always made clear that whatever outcome occurs should be after consultation and negotiation with business including small business.
You would think from the government's hysteria about giving workers a wage rise this is the first time in the history of the nation there has ever been a wage rise.
The problem is that in the past there used to be regular wage rises.
Now it's stalled.
Small business survived in the past.
Isn't it about time we called out the sort of Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, Scott Morrison nonsense that if you give a worker a decent wage somehow it's the end of our economy as we know it?
Rubbish.
When it comes to small business let me just say this.
We're a much better deal for Australian small business.
I noticed today the government's reheated last year's leftovers where they boldly told you all today a policy they announced last November and said, "Hey, presto, it's new.
" It's not.
They actually said it last year.
They're selling you last week's newspaper as this week's fish and chip wrappers.
But what Labor is going to do is we've matched that policy last year, so that's great, no difference there.
But we are billions of dollars better for small business because we are introducing the Australian Investment Guarantee.
It means that any business in Australia, big or small, if they want to invest in productive new capital and technology, they can claim an extra 20 per cent on the first day they purchase it.
Port buys a new crane, that's an expensive undertaking.
So they weigh up the cost-benefit.
Under our proposals, 20 per cent extra you can deduct on tax.
That's worth $3.
8 billion over the next four years.
Now we think that’s worth helping business in, including small business, because what we get, what the taxpayer gets for giving that deduction to business is that they see a productive investment.
When you add that on, the fact that we have matched the government on lowering the tax rate for small business, we've matched the government on the instant asset write-off, and when you look how in different sectors, from dairy farmers to mechanics, we've got specifically calibrated policies to help small business.
What we say to small business is don't believe the government's scare campaign, look at the detail of our promises.
The other thing I would say in favour of modest and meaningful wage rises is what that actually means is that the customers of small business have more money to spend in the small businesses.
OK let's go through each of those three points very briefly.
There is a cost to Australian business when wage earners are experiencing wage stagnation.
It means a decline in confidence.
So there is an absolute negative cost.
If working people in this country are not getting reasonable wage rises they stop spending money because they don't have it.
That is the cost, confidence.
Now you went on to talk about climate, as I thought you might.
So Mr Warwick McKibbin - I don't know if he is still in Africa on his safari, but he published an article in the Australian Financial Review today.
And he makes it very clear that the debate about cost, a specific mythical number which I advised you of last week, he said it isn't the main game.
What he said to do is you have got to compare the cost of not taking action on climate change in 2030 with the cost of taking climate action.
And what he said is have a look at the detailed policies.
Labor's got policies.
So let's once and for all, and McKibbin himself, has put a stake into that argument.
It's the wrong question.
Now we want to talk about electric - you asked three questions, I'll just go to your third one and then I will share the joy with everyone else.
On electric vehicles we are not mandating.
If you don't want to buy an electric vehicle in 2030, don't.
But what we are saying is we know that the rest of the world are building more car models with electric engines.
We know that they are not putting the same investment into internal combustion.
So let's just kill off this scare campaign once and for all.
Labor doesn't mind what car you drive.
But what I do mind is if we have got a government, a climate-denying, stuck in the past, technophobic government afraid of new technology denying Australians new car models and cheaper options in terms of petrol and maintenance which we see from this.
And while we are on the issue of scare campaigns I want to call out the latest bit of rubbish from the government lie machine.
And that is the so-called death tax.
There is actually only one leader who has never ruled out a death tax and that is the current Prime Minister.
We know that this fellow, the current Prime Minister, he loves to get on the high moral ground, but then what he does is he behaves in the exact opposite manner, with no skerrick of truth.
Labor has never had any plan for a death tax under my leadership nor does it have any plan for a death tax.
But what this fellow wants to do is he knows it is a lie, he is intentionally telling a lie, but the old ad man doesn't care.
So we will call out the ridiculous propaganda.
And the other thing is, the other scare campaign is the Greens.
Look at the Greens running around saying they are going to tell Labor what to do.
My party is 120 years old.
We are the party who looks and focuses on working and middle class Australians.
We are not going to take a lecture from the Green political party whoever since they have come on the scene has put the cause of environmental change back because they take it to the extreme margins.
We are the only party focussed on getting a sustainable environment but making sure that working and middle class people don't get left behind.
First of all it’s a silly policy and it’s a policy that isn't going to happen.
In terms of the Greens, what I say to them next time they catch a tram - trams run on steel.
Steel is made through a process of using metallurgical coal.
I don't think they quite know sometimes where it all comes from.
But that shouldn't be used as an argument, that should not be used as an argument not to take action on climate change.
And I do think that we need to actually move towards more renewable energy in our system.
We've got to deal with the fact that we have got a government who are climate deniers.
And you have got some of the extreme Greens who think that you can, you know, change the world on just the click of a finger.
Thanks everyone.
I should say I am going to address the workers now.
The port has been very good to get them to stop to listen to us.
I've no doubt they have found this terribly informative and you are all welcome to come to the meeting which we are having with the workers.
Thank you.
Thanks, that is Elida Faith, Labor’s candidate running in Leichhardt.
Before we get onto the exciting new announcements that we are making for tourism and the bush around Australia and protecting the reef I think it is important that my first comments go towards yet again, expressing my and Labor's solidarity with the people of Sri Lanka, my and Labor's solidarity with Sri Lankan Australians.
Chloe and I were at church in Brisbane yesterday like many hundreds of thousands of Australians.
Like many tens and hundreds of thousands of Sri Lankan worshippers.
It is unthinkable that people at prayer should be the subject of this cowardly terror attack.
And we stand with Sri Lankan Australians, they're a mighty community, and we stand with Sri Lanka.
I had the opportunity to talk to a family down at the ticket box at the start of the Skyrail.
They're very proud Sri Lankan Australians, a family with a daughter.
They know they live in a great country Australia because it is so safe, but they expressed their sadness, their family are okay back in Colombo.
But their sadness, they thought that after 20 years of war, this violence and terror was behind them in Sri Lanka and that tourism was up.
Clearly, there are always evil people amongst us who seek to drag people back into shocking violence and our solidarity and sympathy is with the people of Sri Lanka.
Going to a more positive note, I'm here with Elida and Tony Burke and Brendan O'Connor, we're here to announce a number of exciting propositions for regional Australia and the Great Barrier Reef.
This is an iconic part of Australia where rainforest meets reef.
Labor's very committed to regional tourism.
Regional tourism is a jobs driver for Queensland and it's a jobs driver across Australia.
43 cents in every dollar that the Australian tourism industry earns is earned in the regions of Australia.
We want to see a greater investment in the regions so that the great Australian story of the regions can be shared around Australia and also with people all around the world.
So we're announcing great new initiatives in regional tourism - upgrading airports, upgrading existing tourism venues, creating new tourism experiences and putting more money into marketing the Australian story, the Australian regional tourism story in Australia and beyond our shores.
But apart from regional tourism and the $250 million package, which will generate thousands and thousands of new jobs, Tony Burke and I are here today because the Great Barrier Reef is under threat.
And this current Government has not done anything to help properly save the reef.
So today, we announce that we are going to engage in reef rescue and that starts by taking back most of the money which was given in half an hour to a private trust, and we're going to take that $440 million back and we're going to spend it on Government experts, the CSIRO, working with local communities.
The Great Barrier Reef is one of the seven natural wonders of the world.
All Australians are so lucky to have the reef working so hard for us.
Now it's time that we work hard for the reef.
We are going to take that money back, talk to the locals, talk to the science experts and make sure that we genuinely save the reef - not make dodgy decisions giving money to private philanthropic trusts.
Before I hand over to Brendan, go to a third and final proposition for today, which is very important as we're in the middle of the Easter-Anzac Day holiday period.
New reports out today show that the cuts to penalty rates in Australia are having a massive impact on the wages of hundreds of thousands of Australian workers.
Evidence demonstrates that the penalty rate cuts which have already been implemented, and the ones which are scheduled to be implemented under the LNP, or the Liberals, if they get returned to power, we'll see people losing up to $27,000 in the next three years.
Thousands and thousands of dollars are being cut from people's wages.
What we see is wage stagnation.
I want to be very clear to Australians: I understand what's happening.
Everything's going up in cost of living.
But not people's wages.
Everything's going up but wages.
The current Government love to talk about a strong economy, but I have got news for them on behalf of millions of Australians.
When you have got cuts to schools and hospitals, when you have the cost of living on everything from childcare to health and energy going up, and massive wage cuts like the penalty rate cuts that we've seen, that does not equal a strong economy.
That just means the rich are getting richer under Morrisons Australia.
Well Labor is not going to stand for that, not only are we going to reinstate the penalty rates that have been arbitrarily cut, but I'm pleased to announce for the first time today here, that if Labor is elected, we are going to use the full force of the Commonwealth advocacy to make a submission to the national wage case to get wages moving in a modest and meaningful way.
I'll gather the Cabinet together straight away if we are elected, we'll work through the issues.
We're going to use the full force of Commonwealth advocacy to support a wage improvement, a wage increase, for 2.
2 million Australians.
We will make the case to the independent umpire.
The Government's had six years to demonstrate they're fair dinkum on wages.
They're just not.
Wages are at a record low.
Since the last election when Mr Turnbull was leader of the Liberal Party to now, corporate profits have gone up 39 per cent.
But wages have only gone up 5 per cent.
The Liberals have had six years to demonstrate they're on the side of millions of wage earners and they failed that test.
We won't.
We're going to restore the penalty rates, and a Government I lead will make a full-throated, full-bodied submission to the independent umpire where the Commonwealth of Australia, the Government of Australia, elected by the people, is going to back the people and support wage rises for everyday Australians.
I don't accept the characterisation that Tanya did what you said she did.
With Adani our position is the same as it has been for the last two years and these are our principles: We will be guided by the best science, we will not use any taxpayer money, we will not engage in any sovereign risk, we will adhere to the law of the land.
We have no plans, but the point about it is this Adani has become a political football.
I think everyone, that's probably the only thing that the stop Adani people agree on.
If I’m Prime Minister I'm going to be governed by the law, I’m not going to be governed by either a mining company or an environmental activist.
That’s what I think people of North Queensland deserve, that's what I think all Australians would expect.
The final thing I would make on that, Labor is not putting all its eggs in the Adani basket.
If that stacks up it stacks up in the manner in which I have already outlined.
Labor is outlining $6 billion worth of infrastructure projects which will create 24,000 jobs right across Queensland.
Today's latest announcement about investment in regional tourism, today's latest announcement about prioritising the best science to govern the rescue of the reef is again our commitment not only to create new jobs in North Queensland, but to protect the existing jobs.
Well, first of all, we'll let the independent umpire decide that, but we aren't going to go missing like this Government has for the last six years.
What we're going to do is make a full-bodied submission.
I’ll have talked to my Cabinet colleagues.
We'll take the soundings from industry, we’ll hear all the points of view, but I think that Australians need a wage rise.
We got wages stagnation, productivity growth in Australia is four times what wages are.
You got to ask yourself - what sort of country we'll have if the current Government get returned?
The penalty rates will remain cut and new cuts have been phased in.
Now, this is a Government who loves to talk about a strong economy, but they're only interested in a strong economy for the top end of town.
Once you add up what's happening to millions of Australian wage earners, penalty rates cut, wages stagnation, energy bills going up and up and up, out-of-pockets to see the doctor going up and child care, middle-class Australia is getting done over with a lack of interest by this Government in cost of living and wages stagnation.
I’ve got Tony here, so I will get him to supplement this, he's our point man on this.
This Murray Darling scandal in my opinion highlights this is a Government not interested in the bush and not interested in climate change, not interested in handing on a better environment to our kids.
This summer just passed, December, January, with the massive fish kills, unprecedented, shows there's a crisis.
It's not good enough for the Morrison Government to say this is Labor's fault from 2012 or 2013.
Mr Morrison and his team have been in power for over 2000 days, and the situation in the Murray Darling is going from bad to worse.
In terms of a Royal Commission, let's see what the Department provides in the next 24 hours, but I might get Tony to talk further about the scandal in the Murray Darling Basin and how it is damaging our future.
The process is not concluded with the Queensland Government, that's the first point to make.
So the ball is really in the Queensland Government's court.
The second point I'll make is, we'll back the science, we'll adhere to the law, we're not going to use taxpayer money, we're not going to engage in sovereign risk.
What I'll also need to just briefly make the point here is - what's the Government doing?
The Federal Government, if they're so fair dinkum, why have they taken so long, and why are they keeping Melissa Price in witness protection?
Well, first of all, it's not what I want that's going to make a difference, if I'm Prime Minister…
Sure.
What I'll do as Prime Minister is adhere to the law.
I'm not going to be a cheer squad for one or the other, I'm not in that caravan coming from the south, and I'm not in the cheer squad which says that don't worry about the science.
If I'm the Prime Minister I'll adhere to the best science and the best law.
In terms of the review, I'll just adhere to the law, that's why we have laws in this country.
And another point I made earlier which deserves a little more emphasis.
I'm not going to engage in sovereign risk - and I understand that people want to litigate one way or the other, and let's also talk about the bigger picture here, which is coal.
Coal will be part of our energy mix going forward, but we're going to have more renewables.
This cannot be an excuse for a debate by the Government into what they're not doing on climate change, that's why we're here announcing a rescue for the reef.
Well, I'm just going off what I've read in the newspapers.
It certainly seemed to be a ramshackle process, but we're just going to adhere to the law.
What investors in this country want to know is, does the rule of law apply?
What people who care about the environment want to know is, is there going to be respect for the environment and more action on climate change?
Only Labor offers that alternative.
On the environmental activist side, they say sometimes ignore the law, can't do that, won't do that.
And some of the boosters for this particular project, say, oh don't worry about if it all stacks up, just get on and do it.
Life's not that simple actually, what we need in this country is stability.
The fact of the matter is, that this is a divided Government, the fact of the matter is they had all these arguments, even as, on the eve of the election and that's just not the way laws or investment or the environment should be looked after.
Colourful analogy, but no.
Guys we haven't even won the election yet, so I think if I started saying, X has got a job and Y hasn't, you'd accuse us of arrogance, I do know there's one thing that Martin Parkinson has said, he is the Prime Minister's number one public servant adviser.
The principal guy, the one who, you know, the Government go to to check their things.
I noticed that he has warned, in a letter to us, that people shouldn't use modelling for misleading purposes, and he's cautioned against anyone thinking that his Department has modelled Labor's policies.
What we need in Australia at the moment is less scare campaign and more facts.
What we need is a plan for the future.
What Labor is offering is real action on climate change, real action on wages, real action on cost of living.
These are the things which Australians are talking to me on the campaign trail, and we're focused.
Again, I'm not getting into who's in and who's out, because that would imply, that somehow I thought we had won the election, that'll be the judgement of the Australian people.
But I'll tell you one thing we can put to the judgement of the Australian people, if you want to save the Barrier Reef, vote Labor.
If you want to back in regional tourism, vote Labor, and if you want to get your wages moving, for goodness sakes, vote Labor.
Well I'm a Victorian, spent quite a lot of years in Victoria.
Listen I think Labor has a good story in Victoria but we've got a good story across Australia, but certainly one thing has been the case for Victorians under this Federal Government, they have not received their fair share of infrastructure investment.
This Government hasn't invested in public transport in Melbourne suburbs, they haven't invested in the roads of the South-East.
I think voters and it doesn't just go for Victoria should ask themselves a serious question about the Government, what is it they expect the Liberal’s to do now that they haven't done the past six years?
And on wages that's a classic example.
If you're sick of penalty rates being cut, if you're sick of low wages growth then why don't we get a Government in who has a wages policy, who will sit down with all the parties, sit down with the point of view of business, listen to the workers.
But we've got to get wages moving again in this country and today's announcement I'll give you fair notice won't be the only announcement we're making this week about a coherent and sensible wages policy because most Australians are sick of everything going up except wages.
Listen I've seen the Greens talk about this stuff.
The tail doesn't wag the dog let’s be clear here.
We use the word mandate a lot in politics, now I'm going to be very clear though, if we get elected we've got a mandate to change the penalty rates, put them back in in the way the way that Labor has said and indeed we got the vote through the Senate in the current Parliament.
The people who are a road block to people getting a reasonable wage rise, helping deal with the cost of living are the Liberals and the Nationals in Canberra.
I've got Brendan here so he'll supplement, but we've now had the laboratory of extreme right wing thinking in the real world, it’s no longer just a theory.
This Government got the penalty rate cuts that they wanted.
They voted eight time against increasing penalty rates back to where they were but let’s have a look at what's happened on Sundays and the public holidays.
Under Mr Morrison's theory and Senator Cormann’s architecture of low wages it was going to be a brave new day, a brave new dawn of extra jobs on Sundays and public holidays, that has not happened, that has not happened.
The University of Wollongong’s done a study.
All that's happened under the Liberals is not that a lot more workers get employed on the days that you had the penalty rates get cut, all that happens is that people suffer wages cuts.
I'll just get Brendan to supplement.
I feel that we are reaching the end of this, perhaps I take one more question.
I guarantee you on wages we are going to be talking all this week and the rest of the election, because when it comes to what’s happening millions of forgotten middle class Australians, the cost of living is going up, their wages aren’t growing and of course there are cuts to schools and hospitals.
We've got several specific proposals and then some of the proposals by nature have to reflect evidence which we will subsequently get from business and from various points of view.
But here's some specific numbers.
For people who have had their penalty rates cut if we get in you're not going to lose $27,000 if you're a pharmacist over the next three years.
If you're a restaurant or accommodation worker you're not going to lose nearly 20,000 plus over the next three years.
So if you are asking specific, there's real numbers.
What we've seen and over this holiday break all the way from Easter through to Anzac Day, over that ten days, people are losing between $220 - $370 so we're going to fix that straight away.
In terms of the living wage and ensuring that we get the wages moving again, I can't give you the specific number because frankly I've got to listen to business, I've got to listen to the evidence from the unions and we've got to have the independent umpire involved in it.
But one thing is for sure, the current minimum wage is not enough.
But the rate of wage growth for millions of our fellow Australians is not enough, that is why for example we are going to crack down labour hire and start treating people better.
We have got so much to do today, I will see you at the next venue.
Thanks, that was Josh Burns, Labor's candidate for Macnamara.
First of all it is great, on an Easter Saturday to be with my family at Luna Park.
This is an icon.
It’s been continuously in operation for 107 years.
What that also reminds me is that all of us over this Easter break are very lucky to have people turning up to work.
People who serve us our meals in the hotels, people who look after our rooms in our accommodation if we are travelling away from home.
The people indeed who provide the pharmacy work and the shops, the things which we take for granted.
Right around Australia there are millions of people working had so the rest of us can enjoy ourselves.
That is why we should keep paying people their penalty rates and not arbitrarily cut them.
It has been estimated that over this 10 day Easter break, Anzac Day period the workers who have had their penalty rates cut will be losing, in this 10 day period, between $220 and $370 depending which award they are covered by.
This is hundreds of thousands of our fellow Australians who are working over this 10 day period have literally had up to $370 cut from their pay.
This government could have changed that.
Not only does this government cut funding to schools, not only does this government cut funding to hospitals, but they also, to show how callous they are, have acquiesced in the cutting of penalty rates.
On eight occasions Labor put to the government in a vote, let’s restore the cuts to penalty rates.
Eight times Mr Morrison and his team of cutters supported the cuts to penalty rates for the lowest paid workers, young workers, women workers.
This is a government that not only doesn’t get it, it just doesn’t care.
The finance services minister Mr Cormann put his hand up and he said we support the low wages architecture of Australia.
They support cutting penalty rates.
Well, there couldn't be a clearer choice in this election.
I've said previously this election is an election, it is a referendum on wages.
Everything is going up in Australia except people's wages.
And the rot stops when we reverse the cuts to penalty rates.
We, at our very first piece of legislation, if we get elected, will be to restore the cuts, to replace the cuts, to return the penalty rates back to the workers of Australia.
That's what we're going to do first off.
We’ve got a plan for wages.
All Mr Morrison has is a plan for cuts.
Cuts to schools, cuts to hospitals and perhaps worst of all, cuts to people's penalty rates.
I would now like to hand over to Brendan O'Connor to talk further about our wages policy, our plan for a fair go for wages, then take questions.
Thanks, Brendan.
Are there questions?
Our position is not taken lightly.
We respect the independent umpire, but they got this one wrong.
We live in an era of wage stagnation.
Australians under this government are going through the longest, lowest period of wages growth since we were keeping records 60 years ago.
So as a general rule, you don't want to interfere with the independent umpire's decision, but they got this one wrong.
Of course, it is not without precedent.
The independent umpire famously got it wrong when they didn't support the introduction of award based superannuation.
So, there was no guaranteed minimum super.
And indeed, Paul Keating and Bob Hawke stepped in to create universal superannuation as a result.
So, whilst what we're doing is as a last  resort, it is not without precedent.
But let's look at what this really means.
Penalty rates are not a luxury.
There's two ways that low paid workers get paid for working the inconvenient hours.
Either through a system of penalty rates or tips.
Do we really want to go down the American path of workplace relations where a worker, to make, an adult, to make ends meet has to rely on tips and charity and the coins and dollar notes left on the table after the guest has gone?
That is not the Australian way.
Let's also remember when we talk about penalty rates - the people who get penalty rates by and large are on 30 and 40 and $50,000 a year.
Every dollar they get, they spend.
And it was promised if you cut penalty rates there would be this new golden era of job creation.
Well the University of Wollongong studied this.
And we haven't seen an explosion in new jobs.
What we have just seen is working people getting the rough end of the stick.
No.
Listen, I will tell you what we pin our climate change policies on - the best science.
I mean, I noticed that some parts of what McKibbin says are selectively quoted by particular newspapers.
But he also said, buried in that story, which you didn't go to your question, he said the Morrison government plan would be very expensive.
And in yesterday's story, on the Daily Telegraph, he said the cost which The Telegraph trumpeted was a back of the envelope number.
Or as we now call it the front of the Telegraph number!
Either way the problem that this government has is what they call cost, I call investing.
I call investing – like many companies do – in new technology and new opportunities.
What this government call cost, I call protecting the future for the kids and the next generation.
This government.
the government is obsessed about particular micro propositions.
Let's go to the big picture here.
Because the big picture is where a nation should be directed towards.
The big picture here is at what cost does this government think it’s too expensive to save the planet?
Our research is based upon not just the best science, it is also based on consultations with industry.
The Business Council of Australia, the business groups, they're the ones who say it makes sense to use international permits.
This government used to believe in it.
Can we just, we don't suffer from amnesia in this country, so why is it the government thinks we do?
Prime Minister Morrison was Treasurer Morrison and when he came up from air from cutting schools and hospitals, he used to back a National Energy Guarantee.
Now he doesn't.
First of all, the McKibbin report is publicly available, and of course we’ve relied upon it in part, but let's also go further here.
You all know what the government's doing.
This has been a ten year torture on climate change, where the climate has got worse, the extreme weather events have got worse, and this government is still trying to delay and discourage.
Here is a bet, here’s a bet I'll make you.
Future generations are going to despise the politicians right now who refuse to take action on climate change.
Yes.
I was in Proserpine in January, doing one of my many visits to regional Queensland and after, I forget which particular scare campaign the government had whistled up, I said I bet you this government is so desperate, they will try and create a ridiculous death tax scare.
Well, you know, truth imitates our press conferences there.
They did exactly that.
It is a lie.
It is a lie.
It is a lie.
And I think the Liberal Party need to be ashamed of themselves using low rent, American-style fake news which is actually a lie and then trying to scare different communities in Australia.
This water scandal is really, really, really starting to come to light, isn't it?
This was the nation's biggest water purchase, the most expensive water purchase and now we're seeing question marks about the probity of it.
You have got the particular minister, Mr Taylor.
You know, he used to make a living from working with this company, goes into parliament and then the company gets a super contract.
A lot more questions to answer here.
And by the way, why this is relevant to the Australian people is this is a lot of taxpayer money.
Probity questions as far as the eye can see.
But even more importantly than that, our river system is stuffed and it is stuffed because this is a government who hasn't had a plan to look after the whole of the river basin.
It has played favourites.
It has pursued particular commercial agendas, and as a result, Australia's mighty Murray-Darling is on the critical list.
This is the problem.
That's why we should have a national anti-corruption commission too.
Produce all the documents.
All the documents.
You have got to answer: is this the right process?
I think I would be interested to hear if Mr Turnbull, former Prime Minister Turnbull, knew what his ministers were doing or whether or not they were going rogue?
I do think that this is an inquiry which today the Prime Minister needs to say one thing: is he completely confident that everything is above board?
Is he going to stake his reputation on whether or not all of these matters have been done above board?
And if he is, then he needs to come clean with all of the detail.
Well first of all, when we talk about this, the assumption in your question wasn’t correct.
What you said there is you compared their policy and ours.
But the costing even done by McKibbin acknowledges that the government's policy doesn't take into account the use of international credit offsets, whereas ours does.
So we are comparing different propositions.
In terms of ours, we're very clear: our policy will not cost the taxpayer.
The current government is paying billions of dollars in an emissions reduction fund.
No, I am explaining it.
To take it through, the emissions reduction fund of the government means your taxes, my taxes, everyone's taxes, get used to pay big polluters not to pollute.
That is a clear cost.
We are not raising a tax, we are not seeking to spend taxpayer money to pay big emitters not to emit.
In terms of business, our cost is comparable to the government's.
We are using the same approach of industrial safeguards.
And we are allowing businesses, and we are going to support the trade-exposed sector, so we do have $300 million which we are contributing to help cement and steel and aluminium, and other emissions-intensive trade-exposed industries.
We know that this doesn’t happen now, because we are using the same system the Government use.
The Government actually have in place, you are probably aware, a system where if you emit more than a certain number of tonnes of carbon pollution into the air, the government has … the companies have to pay for that.
The way that companies are defraying that is by investing in new technology, they are better at measuring what they do.
What that consequentially means is we are using the same system, so of course over time, as companies reduce their carbon emissions, the cost to companies goes down.
But every company has got a different story; every company has a different approach to doing it.
So there is no one mythical figure.
The point about it is, that we either tackle climate change or we don’t.
The problem with answering your question is simply this: your question makes no allowance for the impact of climate change.
How much do you offset the cost of getting a company to stop polluting the environment against the cost of extreme weather events.
Your question is only part of the equation.
Well I think that the cost of climate change is now being passed onto consumers.
Well no, that’s where we fundamentally disagree.
What I disagree with is simply this, and then we will move on.
When you have a terrible climate event, that cost gets passed on.
When you have energy bills going up under the current government, because we don’t have a policy, that cost gets passed on.
I agree with Mr Turnbull and what Mr Morrison said back in 2017, a National Energy Guarantee makes sense, and that will actually improve household bills by $550.
Yeah, we think that that’s a good framework.
The reason why we’ll pursue the National Energy Guarantee is I think Australians are over climate change wars.
I know that government loves to pound out its scare campaign, but what scares Australians more is not dealing with climate change.
So what we’ll do is we’ll use some of the Turnbull, Morrison, Frydenberg architecture, and we will work with that structure.
I’d be amazed if the opposition, the Liberals if they lose the election, that they’ll continue to oppose climate change.
The good news is that if Labor wins the election, I think we can put to an end the toxic climate change debate, we can prove that this nation is ready to adopt new technology, embrace more new jobs, create economic growth and lower power prices.
Our policies will be a net benefit for the economy.
We believe that if you invest in making climate change changes now, and lowering carbon pollution, this will benefit the economy.
I don’t accept that acting on climate change has a cost.
I believe not acting on climate change has a cost.
You’re looking at some of the inputs, I’m looking at what we get for the end of the process.
Well, on the cystic fibrosis announcement, absolutely.
We’re very supportive of that.
CF is a dreadful disease.
But in terms of the Government announcing $100 million dollars on cancer, I remember the last two weeks.
This government has viciously attacked me for trying to tackle the out of pocket costs of cancer.
Now what this government has done is belatedly realise cancer is real issue in the community.
Individually they may have known it, but collectively as a government, the current prime minister got out there and day after day attacked me for wanting to reduce the out of pocket costs of cancer treatment.
It’s good that they’re going to do some more in the regions.
After all, Labor said we’re going to put $250 million dollars into reducing waiting lists, $500 million into tackling public hospital cancer support and we have put a total package of $2.
3 billion into tackling cancer over the next four years.
The government can’t have it both ways.
They can’t say on one hand that we’re stupid to be tackling cancer, and then on the other hand, expect a whole bunch of flowers for doing 1/25th of what we’re doing.
First question is, is the prime minister satisfied with the probity of all the decisions.
And if he is, will he agree to an audit, or a commission of enquiry, to demonstrate that the questions being raised are not valid.
He needs to come clean.
He needs to say does he 100 per cent guarantee Barnaby Joyce’s actions?
Does he 100 per cent guarantee everything Angus Taylor did?
And if he does, he needs to demonstrate to the public why he is so confident in these matters.
In terms of just finishing this up, Tim made a point.
Yes, where the government does something good on health, I’m going to back it in.
It’s a shame the government doesn’t have the shame view towards us, the same commitment.
But that’s the sort of prime minister I’ll be.
Where someone else has a good idea, I’ll back it in.
The National Energy Guarantee.
Don’t think it was perfect, but I think people are sick of the us versus them rubbish which masquerades as Australian politics.
On health care, cystic fibrosis, tick.
But why won’t the Prime Minister back in our $2.
3 billion commitment on cancer?
Why won’t he back in our reductions to waiting lists today?
Newspapers are reporting that waiting lists have blown out under this government.
I’ll tell you why waiting lists have blown out.
Because the prime minister of Australia is the cutter in chief.
The cutter of health funding, the cutter of education funding, the cutter of penalty rates.
The Australian people want fair dinkum plans for the future not cuts, cuts and cuts and not too little, too late.
Thank you everybody.
Thanks very much Luke.
Well, great to be back in Darwin again and the weather’s fantastic.
The Territory’s a very exciting place but it deserves a government in Canberra who will get behind the aspirations and dreams of the people of the Territory.
Today in particular, I’m really pleased to announce that a Labor Government, if elected, will invest $115 million to improve the health outcomes of our First Australians.
We should be a country who ensures that our First Australians have the same health outcomes as other Australians.
We want to Close the Gap.
Now I understand that talking about Indigenous health mightn't change an election, but it can change the nation.
This country has to be the best we can be in the way that we offer the same opportunities to all Australians.
When First Australians have lesser health outcomes, then all of Australia is diminished.
Our job as the Labor Party is to fight for all Australians and that's what we're doing today with $115 million in an exciting health package to assist Indigenous Australians.
I'd now like to hand over to Catherine King to talk further about this important announcement.
Any questions about this or other matters?
Well whilst I'm not running for Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, especially as Michael Gunner is doing such a good job, gee the new Gunner Government was left with a lot of problems by the outgoing administration, the CLP-run people.
You know, the CLP managed to do the double - the daily double.
They managed to sell government assets, the assets of the people, the TIO, lease out the port for 99 years, so they got a whole lot of money in.
So they sold assets that belonged to the people of the Territory and they still ran up massive debt and deficit.
So the Gunner Government’s certainly got its work cut out for it.
We will be announcing more details about further support for the Northern Territory.
But if you want to talk about a Northern Territory package, Labor has already begun to outline our meaningful support in tourism, in roads, in health and education.
Only Labor can be trusted nationally by the Territorians to make sure that you get a fair go.
Well, what we'll do in our way is we’ll put more investment in the Territory.
I get there's a legitimate concern to make sure that no one gets disadvantaged in GST, and it was Labor nationally, working with the McGowan Government in Western Australia, who ensured the West got their fair share.
So our door will be open to talk to Western Australia, not about changing the GST formula, but making sure the Northern Territory gets its fair share of investment.
Our climate change plans will grow the economy, they'll create jobs and they'll lower power prices.
I notice there's been a bit of a debate and a bit of a scare campaign by the News Limited papers talking about international offsets for carbon pollution reduction.
And I thought this was something which both sides of politics had agreed on so I did a little bit of homework and I found this very interesting quote, which I think goes to the baseless, fraudulent scare campaign of the Morrison Government, backed up by their allies in some parts of the media.
And it says, this quote says, "When it comes to helping the environment, it doesn't matter if you've reduced a tonne of CO2 here in Australia or in another country.
" I thought, well that makes sense.
But I was surprised to find it was Josh Frydenberg who said that.
So what we have is the government’s now scaring you about their own policies they used to have and support.
When it comes to carbon pollution reduction, our strategy is the lowest cost abatement using a combination of international tools and domestic tools and might I also say plenty of incentives.
Did you know that if we properly invest in renewables, there would be tens of thousands of new jobs?
And did you know that if we don't take action, we're going to have a greater cost on our insurance on and arising from natural disasters.
Well, let's go through the whole position on tax and I'll be as brief as I can.
But let's just state some facts.
First of all, there's the first round of tax cuts proposed in the next term of government, whoever forms a government.
Labor’s said that we have the same position.
In fact we have a better position for 3.
6 million people who earn less than $40,000.
And in fact we've led the tax debate.
In my Budget Reply speech of 2018, I proposed bigger, better, fairer tax cuts and the government then gradually, after a year of kicking and screaming, matched us.
So on the first round of tax cuts, it's all the same except we're slightly better for people under $40,000.
On the second and third round, they don't come in for a number of years and what we found when you study the fine print of the fraudulent claims of this government on tax is that they're promising people a tax rise on the never-never and they never explain upfront with how you pay for it.
And let me, let me explain therefore how they pay for it - cuts, cuts, cuts.
This government is addicted to cuts.
We've had six years of cuts.
You know, I never lose sight of the fact that current Prime Minister was the Treasurer for the last three years.
He's the cutter-in-chief.
Cutter-in-chief of schools, cutter-in-chief of hospitals, cutter-in-chief of services.
How this government pays for these future tax cuts, which would require you to vote for the current government at least twice in two more elections, what it does is it requires billions of dollars of cuts.
The Grattan Institute exposed this, called out the secret.
The other thing is that let's look at the priorities of this government on their tax cuts.
Did you know that there's $77 billion hidden away in the Budget to give tax cuts to the top three per cent of taxpayers?
Or, put another way, in even more plain English, if you are a millionaire in Australia, you will get an $11,000 tax cut from the Morrison Government in 2024.
If you are someone who earns $40,000 a year, you get $11 a week.
For me, tax reform is about priorities.
Yes, we would like to see more personal income tax reform, but what we won't do is sacrifice the schools, sacrifice the waiting lists, sacrifice the hospitals to make an unfunded promise, and this is the inherent lie of the government's position: they want to look after the top end of town by cutting services to everyone.
Well first of all, it is just a nonsense claim.
It is a nonsense claim and it is built upon the back of a big lie.
It says somehow that using international offsets to help abate carbon is a bad thing.
Well, if it's a bad thing, why don't go they to Josh Frydenberg, the current treasurer and say, you used to believe it didn't matter where you cut the carbon from so long as you were cutting the carbon.
Well that's our view.
In terms of the costs, we're relying on the same public modelling that the government has.
But you know, these News Corp climate change deniers, and of course their ally, the Prime Minister - a coal-wielding, climate-denying cave-dweller on this issue - they all say, "Look at the cost," well they never mention the cost of the extreme weather events, do they?
They never mention the cost of not getting into renewables and they never mention energy prices, do they?
This is a government who every quarter used to rush out for the last few years and say energy prices are going down.
Well that lie has been exposed.
Energy prices are up 15 per cent because we don't have proper investment, because we don't have proper rules around energy.
Hang on, I'll come to you.
Just over here.
Well first of all, the issue of climate change has been getting away from Australia for the last ten years.
The people of Australia are fed up with politics.
We want to talk about what has been getting away-- why is this nation paralysed on climate change?
It's because one half of the Liberal Party, the bully boys, bully the other half.
The reality is, if the Liberals could be trusted on climate change, Malcolm Turnbull would still be Prime Minister.
What's been getting away from Australians is the fact that energy prices are going up.
We are having a technophobic debate where we're told to be afraid of new renewables technology and keep doubling down and investing in power plants that are 50 and 60 years old.
This climate change debate for a decade has been dysfunctional and dishonest and divisive.
It's about time we backed the science and we backed the people.
Well, you keep going on cost.
I want to say to you let's get this straight.
What is the cost of taking no action?
What is the cost of no action?
I can tell you.
Energy prices are up.
When did this Government get a leave on its own appalling and abysmal track record on energy prices?
Australians are angry.
They're angry at a Government who can't work out taking real action on climate but want to push all the problems down the road and let our kids sort it out when they actually want action now, and Australians are angry at their power bills.
Cost of living is the big issue.
Cost of living and wages are the big issue in Australia.
The middle class of Australia feel like forgotten Australia.
They feel like that Bob Hawke had a view of Australia that looked after them, and they even thought John Howard had a view of Australia.
The middle class are looking at this election, and they are saying to the government, "You're promising us nothing now, and you won't take action on climate change, you haven’t got a wages policy, all you want to do is cut, cut, cut.
" The big question, the big secret, is how does this government pay for its tax cuts on the never-never?
Tax cuts which go disproportionately to the most well-off in our society?
I will tell you how Mr Morrison pays for looking after the top end of town and the top three per cent of taxpayers - by making you, and every Australian, pay more for your health care and get less services in your hospitals and aged care.
The $25 billion dollar figure is just a lie.
It’s using - you can make any number work for you if you pump in the assumptions you want to.
It is using top-price EU carbon offset prices and then saying that's the only thing that will happen.
That is so intellectually dishonest it does not even deserve to be talked about.
What we are going to do is start looking at how we help industry meet the future.
You know, the big missing link in this whole debate - it's as if the government never tried to do did climate change.
Now they have tried and failed.
What we are doing is we are using their industrial safeguards mechanism.
We are using their National Energy Guarantee.
What we are doing is going to work with our energy intensive trade-exposed sectors: cement, steel, aluminium and other sectors.
We have created a $300 million dollar fund to help them invest in new technology.
The reality is that once companies - and I've visited the factories and organised the workforce, I've seen the technology, I've sat in the boardrooms - every company who invests in lower carbon pollution creates more productivity and more efficiency and they invest in new technology.
Tim, you and I know this is a fundamentally dishonest debate.
It’s not you or the people asking the questions - it is what the government's saying.
It is so dishonest.
You all recognise a scare campaign when you see one.
I'll give you three numbers.
50,000 more jobs in renewables, if we go down our path.
I'll give you another number - $18 billion dollars, the cost of natural disasters, but here I'll even give you a more modest number: When this government, when the current Prime Minister was the loyal Treasurer, of the previous Prime Minister - if you believe that I've got a bridge to sell you - but anyway, when the Prime Minister was the Treasurer, when the current Treasurer was the former Environment Minister and when Malcolm Turnbull was still on top, they said the National Energy Guarantee would deliver $550 in lower household prices on energy.
The numbers we're using, are the numbers the experts are given, they're the publicly available numbers, and they're in some cases, Malcolm Turnbull's own numbers.
Yeah, I can, and I'm also fortunate to have people of the calibre of Senator Dodson here and I might give him a run on the ball, but I'll just make this.
The current CDP's not working.
And if you don't believe me, just talk to the thousands of people in remote communities who rely on CDP.
We have got a view that it needs to be reformed and we will reform it, but I might invite Pat to talk about some of the defects in the current scheme, and our thinking about going forward.
Just hang on, hang on, gentlemen, ladies, we've a fair go at this press conference, perhaps I'll allow one more question and then we got to finish up, we've got to go to Tiwi.
Sorry what was the last bit of your question?
Well, first of all, it's publicly available, now if we're saying, the campaign against climate change by this government is malicious and stupid.
It's malicious because there are elements of this government, the right wing, who have undermined even people in the Liberal Party to take action on climate change, and whenever we talk about common sense on climate change, you just get a scare campaign run by the more extreme elements - just hang on- this is really important, cause climate change is an important issue in this election, and it's a malicious campaign by this government.
What they want to do is scare Australians and say that it's too hard to take action on climate change, even though they ignore the fact that two million households have solar on their rooftops.
It's also a stupid campaign.
And this goes to costs.
You know, the world is moving far more investment into energy generation from renewables, it is stupid to want to miss out on what the rest of the world is doing.
It is stupid to say to people that you don't need to change.
That nothing needs to change, and you can all have it all very good in the future without change.
This is a malicious and stupid campaign.
And when I hear people say, well the McKibbin report, those figures aren't right, well, you know what in climate change, there will never be enough figures to satisfy the climate sceptics.
If you don't believe in the science of climate change, no amount of evidence will ever convince you, because fundamentally it's a stupid position not to take action.
Thanks everybody.
Good morning everybody, I am really pleased to be back at this hospital.
But I am even more pleased to be making an exciting announcement.
If Labor is elected, we will provide $20 million to help with more clinical trials and make them available to people diagnosed with blood cancers and leukaemia.
Leukaemia shouldn't be a death sentence.
If you can't access a trial, then potentially the inability to access that trial becomes a death sentence.
6,700 of our fellow Australians will die this year due to blood cancers.
This $20 million is so important to assist.
I have a very good friend who passed a couple of years ago.
I miss him.
He died of leukaemia.
For years he fought it.
I don't want to see other people die when we could have prevented it.
That's why this is such an important announcement.
$20 million to help people in the fight of their lives get access to more treatment.
This will save lives.
I'll hand over to Catherine King to talk more about this great announcement and how we're going to help close the gap in health care between the west and the east.
Thanks, Bill.
Well said.
Good morning, everyone.
There's a lot of you and we're keen to have all the question we can do.
I might just start on my left and work around and see if everyone can get a crack.
Thanks for that.
And I should also give a shout-out to James who asked the question yesterday.
I thought I was being asked have we got any unannounced changes to superannuation and we've already made the announcements of the changes we're going to make.
But obviously we have changes which we outlined three years ago, and of course I should have picked the words better, no question.
We have no proposals other than what we've already announced previously.
No changes to the general taxation treatment other than what we have announced recently.
Just to remind people, we have said that we will lower the concessional contribution cap from $250,000 income to $200,000.
We've also said that we will change the non-concessional contribution caps to $75,000, so we've made some announcements.
But I also have to say I notice that the government has reverted to type with their, you know, lying about our policies.
When you close down concessions and loopholes, this is not some massive increase in taxation.
We're just saying we think these resources can be used better and of course when it comes to helping people contribute to their superannuation, we're not going to be lectured by a government who, with no mandate and no notice, changed the rules for amounts higher than $1.
6 million.
They made retrospective changes, which we opposed the retrospective nature of those changes.
Also, we're not going to be lectured by a government who's frozen superannuation contributions, the compulsory contribution at 9.
5 per cent.
That's been such a disaster for low-paid people and middle-class people in this country.
It's just real economic vandalism.
The Grattan Institute have been very busy and we like to talk a bit about some of their reports, not just your one.
On your specific answer it's at 9.
5 per cent now and I'll ask Chris to supplement.
Because we are costing our 45 per cent reduction with international offsets, so in fact, it does cost the same.
The Government's 26 per cent doesn't have that.
But further on climate change – we've given hundreds of talks about our policy on climate change, and we think it is an important issue in this election.
So we can, you're referring, quite accurately to the McKibbin modelling but there are other costs which we should recognise.
Inaction on climate change is going to cost Australians in the future.
Just ask the Property Council, just ask the Insurance Council.
Just look at the increase in extreme weather events, just look at the number of weather records broken on a constant basis.
Did you know that our natural disasters cost us in 12 months, $18 billion.
Now, we can't turn all of that around overnight with the policy, but we want to be a Government who hands on a better deal to our kids on climate change.
The other cost of inaction is of course rising energy prices.
Single biggest contributor to rising energy prices is a lack of a climate and energy policy in this country.
The current Government is on to their 13th energy policy and their third Prime Minister.
This isn't good enough.
We're seeing a rise in prices because we're not creating policy certainty, because therefore the generation is not being invested in.
Obviously, going back and reading it and rereading what James asked me, you're right.
I was answering a question which I thought I'd been asked, and I accept that it was a different question asked.
But you're all formidable journalists.
You know that our policies have been out there for three years.
I'm sure that you're probably all aware of them.
And of course, today has been an opportunity to remind people of them.
Well, I don't accept your characterisation that it’s raising taxes.
When you wind back a concession that is stopping a tax expenditure which is not raising it.
But let's be very clear - we're not going to take a lecture from the Government.
Our policies are out there for people to see.
But we're not going to take a lecture from the Government who retrospectively ambushed people with superannuation with their holdings by creating a retrospective timetable to pay more taxes.
And also, one of great shames of this Government is that for the last number of years, mandatory minimum contributions have been stuck at 9.
5 per cent.
I'll get Chris to supplement this but I do dispute the characterisation as a tax increase.
I absolutely do.
What happens when you give a concession to someone is that's a tax expenditure.
If I was to give you a concession on something, that is money that we take out of the tax system, which you get.
That is a concession to you.
And that, therefore, becomes a choice.
Is it the best use of a concession to give someone a concession, preferential treatment on one aspect of superannuation, or to invest in other parts of our nation's priorities.
I'll get Chris to answer.
First of all, this Government's going with proposed tax cuts which means that you have to vote in at least two elections.
By 2022, we think this Government is making up these tax cuts.
Or in other words, they can't pay for them.
The question which this Government hasn't yet answered is - how do they pay for these?
See, once you take this tax income out of the budget, you’ve got to replace it.
There's only two or three ways you do it.
By raising more taxes somewhere else.
By paying more interest on the national debt, which has doubled under the Liberals, or by cutting services.
And this is why the Grattan Institute, who was quoted earlier in another matter, they’ve released a report that shows that this Government has got secret cuts that will involve tens of billions of dollars of cuts to services.
So we think that these tax cuts that the Government are promising are a mirage.
We certainly agree with the Government on the first round of tax cuts.
In fact, we've got better tax cuts for 3.
6 million people under $40,000.
But this Government cannot explain its mirage of tax cuts in the future, on the never-never, unless they explain what they're going to cut in the way of services.
And it's a matter of choices.
I'm not going to make a promise about tax cuts which are a mirage which this Government hasn't explained how they pay for them.
I think Australians want to see the detail and that's what we're doing with our plans and our proposals.
I mean for example, for me the killer number which shows this Government's either radically out of touch or just lying to the people of Australia, is that under Mr Morrison's tax plan for Australians, if you're a millionaire, you'll get a tax cut under Mr Morrison of $11,000.
But if you're a person on $40,000, Mr Morrison only wants to give you $11 a week.
It just shows you his priorities and who he is backing in.
And the only way he can pull off this stunt of giving millionaires $11,000 in tax refund and people on $40,000, $11 a week, is by taking the axe to health and education services.
And as we've seen today, I just think that health is more important than giving a millionaire an $11,000 tax cut.
Let's be really clear, other than what we've already announced.
I'll get Chris to answer that.
The empirical evidence shows that, over time, when there's been an increase in compulsory superannuation it hasn't affected wages growth.
So, I'm familiar with what they say, but I don't accept it based on previous evidence.
What I would also say about the more general point about wage stagnation in Australia is: it's a problem.
No lesser person than the Governor of the Reserve Bank has said it's the number one issue, low wages growth.
No political party serious to form a government can be taken seriously unless they have a wages policy.
This Government does not have a wages policy, other than patting themselves on the back about low wages outcomes.
I think the Finance Minister in one of his media appearances said the low wages is the architecture, is caused by the architecture that they've created in the economy.
This goes to what the heart of one of the big issues in this election.
It is a referendum on wages.
Did you know that this Easter, because of the penalty rate cuts, all the people who will be serving us as we have our holiday time, the total of $80 million reduction in penalty rates.
That's what the cost of these arbitrary cuts is.
That is $80 million not just not going to low-paid workers, although that's a disaster, but that is $80 million less that low-paid workers have to spend in the economy.
The fact of the matter is that if you earn $40,000 or $50,000, you don't tend to be investing it in your investment property or your Cayman Islands.
You spend every dollar that you get.
So when we shrink the volume of money in the economy, when we shrink and cut by $80 million, that's $80 million less that's spent in the economy.
Labor has got a plan to get wages going.
Now, I know that the Government says that wage rises are bad, but they're actually not.
The United Kingdom saw an increase in some of its minimum wages and it saw an increase in employment, not a decrease.
What we want to have is modest but meaningful pay rises.
We want to work with the independent umpire, the unions, the employers.
I get that if a small business is worried about capacity to pay that that is a relevant thing to take into account.
But I think ignoring wage stagnation is a disaster for the economy, because after all, as your opening question correctly said, everything is going up in Australia except your wages, and only Labor has a plan to get your wages moving.
Well, we want to make sure that we're getting all of the sectors contributing to it.
We’ve said that we want to see the electricity or the power generation industry contribute, do its bit to reduce by 45 per cent.
We think it can do that.
We believe, through our system, and I'm not too proud to say it,  we're borrowing from Mr Turnbull and the then-Treasurer Mr Morrison's National Energy Guarantee.
We think that this is a good system  which can actually be made to work, and as we explained to an earlier question, using international offsets, we think it's sensible and considered.
Sorry, I’m just going to go over here.
I promised Dan soon.
What we'll do is, the labour hire crackdown actually does help people above the minimum wage.
One of the growing unfairnesses in Australian workplaces is you could be a diesel fitter at Volgren, which is the bus construction company, and you could have someone work alongside you- well, I won't use Volgren, because they might have a different arrangement for labour hire, but in many companies you’ve got someone who works directly for the employer and then they bring in someone else who has got the same trades qualifications and they work not for the employer but for a labour hire company who then contracts this person to the in-house company.
The problem then is that you have got two people working alongside each other and they are paid different hourly rates.
What this does is this dampens wages growth, because what happens is if you can employ someone through labour hire cheaper than your direct labour, what you then do is say to your direct labour ‘I'd like to give you a pay rise but I can employ someone else from a labour hire company more cheaply’.
Another thing we are going to do to help people above the minimum wage is we're going to say in enterprise bargaining that at the end of a three-year enterprise agreement, the employer cannot arbitrarily terminate that agreement and say everyone is back to the award, which could be 50 or 60 or 100 per cent less than what they're getting now.
Or the employer says you don't have to go back to the award but you do have to accept a significant wages cut.
Now, this is not a theory.
What we've seen increasingly is right wing lawyers taking over industrial relations in this country, recommending to companies strategies to terminate agreements, force wages down.
There have been hundreds of terminations each year.
So, these are good, practical measures.
We'll have more to say about how we are going to help women get wage rises, too, and better deals, because what we often see in Australia is that an industry which is predominantly feminised - in other words, the vast bulk of people are women - what we see there is that on average their pay is less than an industry which is vastly populated by men.
But I don't think that when you have got feminised industries the value of that work is actually any less.
I think what it reflects is that for too long we've seen a gender unfairness, and that feminised industries, even though their work is important, like early childhood education – gee, that's an important job - because it's feminised, we think it’s been disadvantaged.
Sorry, Dan.
No, our target is to reduce by 45 per cent-
Sorry, I’ve just got a, Jono, good morning.
Mr Lea.
We will see, across the 2020s, as a result of our energy policies and our climate policies, GDP growth of about 23 per cent.
In terms of offsets, we allow companies to purchase offsets if they need to, if they can't meet their carbon emission reductions by changes in productivity in their workplaces.
Yeah, I do disagree with that, and what we are happy to do is provide you with further information about international offsets.
But I don't accept that the price of buying international offsets is anywhere in that dimension.
I've said that I think - I don't think, I know - our economy is going to grow.
I don't accept the characterisation that it is a cost.
We're going to grow, and we're going to grow because we are going to move to a lower carbon pollution economy.
And there's other aspects which means that we will grow.
But the modelling has been done.
McKibbin did his modelling: 45 per cent with international offsets, 26 per cent for government without.
Well, first of all, what I would say, what contributes to challenges for the economy is this current government.
The economy is more than just climate change.
What I would put to you is this: global debt is rising, and under this government, they have no plan to reduce debt.
Global debt, about 10 years ago, about $US130 trillion, now it’s $US230 trillion around the world.
What we've been lucky, as a world economy, is that interest rates have remained low.
But this government has constructed a wafer thin forecast of a surplus next year by robbing the NDIS, by hiding the cuts they're going to make.
What we've done with our economic reforms, and this is the bigger story, is that we've been very upfront.
We know that what we need to do in this country is properly fund our schools and hospitals; properly fund our TAFE and our childcare.
What we also need to do is give relief to low- and middle-class taxpayers, and that's what we're doing in our first term, but we also need to improve our financial bottom line as a nation.
This government has put together a surplus to get through the next six weeks.
We all know it's tied together with sticky tape and Band-aid and heroic projections about wages.
If you want to make sure that we secure growth for the future, you vote Labor, because this government's growth plan relies upon low wages and big corporate profits, and it relies upon cutting services.
The beauty of our plan for growth is that fairness and decency are good economic guidelines.
If we get wages moving again, tick, economic confidence.
If we invest in the physical infrastructure of the nation, as we are doing in Perth with roads and METRONET, tick, more jobs, more productive infrastructure.
If we invest in people, if we're going to give all of our three year olds the chance to go to kindergarten as Labor wants to do, international best practice, that means that they, over the long term, are going to get a much better learning process and education.
And if I can just finish about how we secure growth, we’re going to keep Australians more healthy because we think that funding health is an important issue.
I know that there are some around who say, Labor only wants to talk about health, well we want to talk about lots of things, and we have been over the last six years as a united team.
But I am not going to be deterred or stopped from prioritising healthcare in this election because a healthy Australia is a productive Australia.
I agree with that comment, Dan.
Thanks.
No, I don’t think so, but Chris has been having a look at this matter.
I have been working on some other propositions today, so I will get him to supplement.
But it is a test for Mr Morrison.
Is it really right that someone takes 11 weeks off every year to go to the Philippines?
They’re elected to represent locals, not people in another country.
Sorry, I want to get, I don’t want to annoy Tim.
Alright, what’s your question, if there’s no mileage in me nice to you?
I was only joking.
It’s ‘be kind to Tim’ day.
Fair’s fair, I did answer it just before, but in terms of our climate policies, we are very clear about our directions.
These matters have been modelled and the debate is not a new debate is it, Anthony?
I was just reminded as I was listening to the discussion that the CSIRO and Melbourne University have said that if we don’t move to the Paris targets, which is what Labor is saying we should move to, but if we don’t move to it the CSIRO and the University of Melbourne say it is going to cost Australian families $14,000 per household.
So there is a lot of information out there.
This nation needs to move forward on climate change.
I’ve said that there are several key issues in this election.
One is unity versus disunity.
One is referendum on wages.
One is who has got the best plan on health for all Australians.
But another one is action on climate change.
This is a real debate between the past and the future.
The issue is this is a government who, if you vote for them on climate change, that’s the triumph of hope over experience.
If they were fair dinkum on climate change Malcolm Turnbull would still be the leader.
It’s called wages stagnation.
It’s called the deregulation of the labour market through legal tactics.
The fact of the matter is that since 2016 corporate profits have gone up on average 39 per cent, wages 5 per cent.
I’m going to repeat that, because that is a big issue.
Under a Liberal Government it’s never been a better time to be a top end of town corporate profiteer but it’s never been a worse time to be a working Australian.
Millions of our fellow Australians have had no wages movement.
So what we have seen is the consequences of this government’s economic policies where they have had one plan for most of their life in government which is to give a tax cut to the big end of town.
You know they did vote 26 times against a banking royal commission.
And in the meantime we have seen penalty rates cut, we’ve seen the expansion of labour hire, casualisation, we’ve seen the greater use of the termination of existing wages agreements to coerce people into lower conditions.
We’ve seen revelations of rampant wages theft.
We’ve seen the over-reliance on fixed term contracts in health and education.
I mean how hard is it being a young person in this country.
You do your teachers qualification and you come out and you say you are doing everything the nation tells you to do and then you just get a series of rolling short-term contracts for years after years after years.
So the problem is that under the Liberals you can’t trust them to get wages moving.
But we will always consult.
We will always make sure that the improvements are modest but meaningful.
We’ll also take the advice of the economists, and we will listen to industry and business.
Thanks everybody it has been a nice conference, see you all later today.
Great to be on the show.
We’re here to explain Labor’s great policies for this election.
In particular, on this visit we’re talking about our exciting new ideas to improve health funding.
At the top of the list is new money - $20 million – to help leukaemia patients when they’re in the battle for their life.
Blood cancers, of which leukaemia is one, take a terrible toll amongst our fellow Australians.
We want to encourage more cancer drug trials, so that people can have access to life-saving medicine.
Well you would love to know what business Tim is in, he obviously is having some business difficulties already, but let me just say this on climate change.
First of all, taking action on climate change is good for the economy.
Lack of action on climate change has led to an increase in energy prices.
We know that investing in renewables is going to lead to 70,000 extra jobs.
Western Australia is well placed to be a climate change leader, and that will lead to cheaper energy.
Some other good news for a small businessperson, without knowing the exact small business he’s in, we are going to back lower taxes for small business, so that it will go from 30 per cent down to 25 per cent.
We are also going to increase the ability of him to invest in new productive technology.
If it’s over $20,000 any small business will be able to claim an extra 20 per cent off their tax.
So, if you’re in food, and you buy a new fridge, you will be able to claim an extra 20 per cent off whatever the cost on top of what you already claimed and that will help you with cash flow, and that is great.
Well, you made a preamble to this question.
I have answered questions on climate change many times, many times.
But I understand that perhaps people don’t always look at your old interviews, and every interview is as if it is the first time you have ever spoken.
But on the modelling, first of all, $18 billion is the cost of natural disasters around Australia, so there is a cost to not taking action.
Power prices have gone up across Australia.
That’s because we don’t have a national energy policy, while this government’s had thirteen different national energy policies.
When there’s no certainty on energy policy, people don’t invest in new energy.
In terms of our proposals, modelling by Warwick McKibbin has shown that our 45 per cent reduction, including international offsets, has the same economic impact as the Liberals’ 26 per cent, who are not having international offsets, so, there you go.
Yeah.
I would pick a more positive number than costs.
GDP growth is going to be 23 per cent across the course of the 2020s.
These are straight answers.
I don’t think any of us that extreme weather events are getting less frequent, are they?
If you don’t start – you are quite right, and what sort of world are we passing on to the next generation?
We know this government is paralysed on climate change, and if they weren’t, Malcolm Turnbull would still be the Prime Minister, wouldn’t he?
Well, I don’t accept that.
First of all, the idea that the environment and the economy are two separate planets and separate solar systems is rubbish.
I know that’s not what you’re saying, but some people think that they are two different worlds.
The second thing is that good climate policy is good economic policy.
The fact of the matter is, we should be an energy superpower, we have got more gas in the ground than just about anywhere else in the world.
The fact of the matter is we are the sunniest and windiest continent, and yet we don’t benefit from that.
The fact of the matter is, in Australia two million households now have solar on the roof top, and what we have got to do is get more battery systems in.
You know, I think Australians are sick and tired of a debate that says the future is too hard.
Look at all this carry on about electric vehicles.
We’ve said that we would like to see a target of 50 per cent of new car sales in 12 years’ time should be electric vehicles.
Now, that is not a big of a jump as it seems.
We don’t make cars here anymore because this government did not do anything to save it.
The reality is, the rest of the world is moving to produce more electric vehicles.
Toyota is going to offer an electric model of all its vehicles from 2025 onwards.
So it’s all about … the beauty of all of this is why shouldn’t Australian motorists have options?
At the moment, all we get is the very expensive cars, but once we’ve got a government that is willing to put in charging stations so that people in the bush can use electric vehicles, why shouldn’t Australians get access to vehicles that are cheaper on petrol?
Well, sorry, no, it’s actually been shown that over time when you pay for less petrol, it actually costs less.
But I agree, at the moment the models are expensive, but this isn’t all about what happens next week and it’s not all about trying to take someone’s ute off them.
We have got to have a political debate in this country which is not about scaring everyone, but says “this is what the future looks like”.
What good is a government to Australians if it says that we are not going to plan for the future, we have no idea what’s coming down the road, we are not interested in international trends.
This is the equivalent of a government arguing in favour of black and white television rather than colour, or AM over FM, although I like AM too.
I just didn’t realise that we had a technophobic government who is afraid of new technology.
For and against.
I guess my point is this: if you want to keep driving a petrol car, you can.
Excellent.
We’re not mandating anything.
No, I’m happy if you do.
What car you choose to drive is your business.
It’s not my business.
My job as a potential Prime Minister of Australia is to make sure that you have got the choices and the options and that we are not ignoring what is happening in the rest of the world.
What if you had a doctor that said there might be new medicines or new treatments overseas “Oh no no, that is not the way we have ever done it in Australia, we can’t access that.
” We can’t be anti the future.
What we have to do is make sure that the future doesn’t leave people behind.
Well, let’s go back to this.
When you give a tax credit to someone who is not paying income tax, that is a gift.
Now, it’s not immoral – I don’t blame Barry for taking the gift – I don’t blame him at all, it’s not illegal.
But how can you give a tax refund to someone who hasn't paid income tax?
It is a gift and the problem is that this gift when John Howard introduced it in 2001 was costing half a billion dollars to the Budget.
Now it is costing nearly $6 billion.
When will we decide that this gift is too big?
When will we decide that it's not correct that we should be giving a gift rather than funding our schools and aged care?
It’s a matter of choices.
Because it is costing $6 billion.
The reality is that when you go to hospital it costs a lot more than $2000, I need to find money for our ageing population.
Did you know 411,000 Australians, nearly heading towards 420,000 in the next year or so, are going to be diagnosed as living with dementia?
That is expensive.
We have schools, we have childcare going up in cost, energy prices have gone up.
Did you know everything in Australia is going up except wages?
So I am not saying it is illegal or immoral.
We are saying that anyone who is on a pension or a part pension is exempt from the change, but there is no principle of tax law since the ancient Romans, no textbook ever has said you should get a tax refund when you haven't paid tax.
Well I like Melissa.
I think she is an accomplished woman and she was a good Member of Parliament when she was there and she's also worked overseas for the United Nations and refugees so, I like her.
In terms of her candidacy, she thought it would be good to run and then she made a decision that she didn't want to become a distraction and of her own volition she decided to take a step back again.
No.
And the point about it is that she is a strong person.
Anyone that knows Melissa knows she makes her own decisions.
Having said that, in terms of what she has actually said I wasn't there.
I am not saying she is wrong, I am not saying she is right.
No, she has strong views.
I like Melissa.
It didn't work out on this occasion.
But I am not one of those people that is going to … I like my team and I think that politics is better suited when you say positive things rather than everyone piles in.
No, he supports party policy and that is our party policy, a two-state solution - the right of Israel to exist behind secure borders but also recognising the legitimate aspirations of Palestinian people to their own country.
Who gets on the front bench is ultimately decided by the Caucus.
But I think all things being equal that would be the case, yes.
Well I have to let the Caucus members have a say, I don't run a top-down organisation, but I think personally Pat Dodson is an outstanding Australian, an outstanding West Australian.
I personally approached him to run for the Senate and you know any room that he is in everyone else in the room always feel a bit better because he is such a significant father of reconciliation.
Well we are going to review it.
First things first - I do think Newstart is too low.
And the Government, they’re not going to do anything about it.
What we want to do is review it, we want to see the interaction with the other benefits which people get, the tax and transfer system.
But we are not reviewing it to lower it.
I will let the review look at all of those issues, that is a legitimate issue.
I think that some conservatives say that you should only be temporarily unemployed therefore keep it low and that way it gives incentive for people to get off it, but I don't think keeping it so low actually achieves anything other than is unfair to people very down on their luck.
We are up for reviewing it and we want to review it positively.
We get into the adjectives game, what I can say is it is too low.
I think it is a range, I don't think it's one stereotype at all.
You get people who are older who, the factory closes, they are thrown all of a sudden on the scrap heap and told they are not worth something.
You could have young people.
Youth unemployment is pretty significant in parts of Australia and of course unemployment in the west is a challenge.
I think there is disillusionment with institutions generally.
I don't think a lot of people trust the media.
Now I do think they trust the ABC that is why, for example, we have committed to an independent public broadcaster.
But I think institutions generally including politicians are viewed sceptically, that there is this view that we are all just in it to look after ourselves and not the people.
I'd have to say to people who get frustrated, we've decided to go first, we've got to trust the Australian people.
We have put our policies out there.
Now the very fact that we are having such a conversation, we are looking to the future on climate change, or we are focused on better health care not bigger tax loopholes, the fact that we are looking at unsustainable tax concessions, and saying can this nation keep going down this road of intergenerational unfairness where you look after people at one end and everyone else is not looked after.
So we are taking the first step to rebuild trust by putting our policies out there.
In politics traditionally, the argument goes when you are the opposition be a small target, let the Government fall over.
Now this Government is hopelessly divided.
Anyone who thinks they're going to unite after the election has no idea of the deep level of hate within this Government and dysfunction and chaos.
But having said that we have to rebuild trust and that is why we're putting our policies out there.
That is why for instance I have been to Western Australia for 80 days as opposition leader.
I do what I call Town Hall meetings.
We invite a whole suburb.
Doesn't matter your politics, doesn't matter if you want to protest, doesn't matter if you have a grievance at the system or individuals we invite you to come along.
I know that anyone that has been to our Town Halls likes what they hear.
What I have got to do perhaps is have this longer form discussion than little gotcha conversations at eight seconds at a press conference which doesn't really add much to the sum of human knowledge does it?
My preference is questions from the audience, just direct.
The media, of course, should be invited, they can film the interplay.
My view is that the more that I can talk directly to the people the better our case goes.
Lovely thank you very much for your interest.
Thanks Nadia.
Good afternoon everybody, it’s great to be here in South Australia in the seat of Boothby with our very capable candidate Nadia Clancy.
Today Catherine and I are pleased to announce a significant new investment in pathology testing in Australia.
We accept the argument that Australian pathologists have put to us that the system is near breaking in terms of bulk billing.
That without a significant injection of new funds, that we could be jeopardising the wide take up of bulk billing for pathology tests.
Now one of the great things about our healthcare system in Australia, is that when a doctor prescribes a blood test they can do so knowing that they’re not putting financial pressure on our patients, that the system can afford the tests which patients need to help with the treatment that they require.
But at the moment in Australia, it's estimated by the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, that in fact 140,000 of our fellow Australians is currently not taking pathology tests because of the cost.
Our system of bulk billing should not be jeopardised because of under-investment in pathology.
We need these tests when people are in the fight of their lives.
So Labor will invest $200 million so that we can keep the high rates of bulk billing and pathology where they are.
I’d now like to invite Catherine to talk a bit further and then we'll be happy to take questions.
Thank you very much.
Welcome words from the peak association representing pathology in Australia.
Are there questions?
None that I can think of.
Just on the Sharrouf children, they shouldn't be a political football.
They have already suffered.
Incredibly irresponsibly, their parents took them to a war zone.
Their parents took them into a regime of terrorism.
But these children shouldn't be held responsible for what their parents did.
Yes.
We're updating the documents.
I mean let's face it, if you want to talk about putting policies upfront, we're doing that.
We put our negative gearing policy out from the Sydney Town Hall in about February, March, of 2016.
As new numbers come to light, we update them.
So, I think if you want to look at the gold standard in terms of putting policies out there, I don't think any of you can really look past Labor.
But if you want to look at what is not the gold standard, have a look at this very important report the Grattan Institute has written today.
I would encourage you all to read it.
It has some real information there.
What it shows is the Liberals' economic model on display yet again.
It shows that for tax cuts on the never-never, they are planning though to cut up to $40 billion a year in secret cuts.
The Government will have to answer during the course of this campaign.
What are the secret cuts you're planning to promise an illusory tax increase in half a decade’s time?
Restore?
I’m not going to start giving security advice, I’ll leave that to the security agencies.
Well first of all, you’ll find that about well over a million people are award-dependent.
And so they're the people I'm talking about.
If you improve the living wage, if you improve the minimum wage to a living wage, then we want to eventually see that flow through to the people who are still reliant on the award system.
That number’s bigger than 100,000 people.
But let’s, you know I get where the question’s coming from, and it's really about this ongoing boast that Mr Morrison keeps saying about a strong economy.
Let's unpack what a Liberal strong economy is based upon.
It's based upon two principles.
The first is keep wages as low as possible, and they're proud of that, and keep making sure that the profits go up and up.
This Government has an almost religious conviction that if you can make the richest people in Australia richer, the richest companies in Australia richer, then eventually some of the crumbs will fall off the table.
So that's the first leg of the principles of Mr Morrison's strong economy, keep wages down.
The second leg though, and the Grattan Institute’s blown the whistle on this again today, is that the number two method that this Government believes keeps a strong economy, is by reducing real spending on essential services that working Australians require.
TAFE, universities, child care, health care.
These are the services which working Australians and Australians depend upon.
If that’s what Mr Morrison calls a strong economy – low wages and reduction in real services – then that's not the strong economy Australia needs.
Labor, by contrast, believes in a strong economy built upon fairness and decency.
And we are not going to stand by and watch Mr Morrison boast about a strategy which sees the rich get richer, and everyone else just miss out.
Where the cost of living is squeezing millions of wage earners.
I haven't.
And indeed, this pathology announcement stands on its own two feet, doesn’t it?
When you think about it, and I will get Catherine to supplement the answer, pathology makes sick people well.
It has that potential.
When you're in the fight of your life, you know, 100 per cent of cancer needs pathology.
So I understand if perhaps the Government doesn't like the fact that we're leading on health care as we do, but the experts tell us there is a problem, that that bulk billing levels of pathology are under pressure.
As I said earlier, but I think it's a pretty fair point, one of the great strengths of our medical system, is that doctors can recommend tests and they’re very confident that it’s not going to put added financial pressure on patients.
I want to preserve that system but the problem is, and Catherine can talk at more length, 140,000 Australians now annually are recorded as not being, taking their pathology tests because they can't afford to.
But I might hand over to Catherine for a moment.
Yeah, but I’ll let Catherine talk more about her announcement first.
Sorry, I will come to you, Jade.
Well I think it will be very interesting to see how Mr Morrison handles this rogue candidate in Chisholm.
It’ll be very interesting indeed to see how he handles it because he needs to make up his mind on a couple of questions.
One, whether he wants as a candidate for the Liberal Party someone who’s said such hurtful things about her fellow Australians, and two, whether he wants as a candidate for the Liberal Party someone who stood in front of the media and said it didn't happen when clearly it did.
This will be a test for him to see how he handles it in coming days.
We have no plans to increase taxes on superannuation.
We have no plans to introduce any new taxes on superannuation.
Sure.
First of all I haven’t spoken exclusively about health.
I don't know what private conversations you have with people or what you want to reveal.
But let me go to the record – I just said four minutes ago Mr Morrison loves to boast about his strong economy.
I'm pretty sure we were all here when I said that.
But let me say it again, because it's a good point to make.
Mr Morrison loves to boast about his strong economy.
But his strong economy is your classic Liberal strong economy, it's built upon two propositions, one, low wages, they're proud of it.
They almost have a religious fervour, don't they, about being happy when the wages are low and corporate profits are up.
Did you know that since the last election, corporate profits have gone up 39 per cent?
But in fact wages have moved on average 5 per cent.
And the second leg that he relies upon for this Liberal strong economy is the reduction, the reduction in real spending on services.
In particular, health, but also I mentioned education, I mentioned TAFE.
I mentioned childcare.
The problem for Australia is that a Liberal strong economy relies on the mythical belief that if the biggest corporations in Australia make a lot of money, if the richest people in Australia can pay less tax through the loopholes, that miraculously everyone else benefits.
That hasn't been the lived experience.
Labor has a different view about what creates a strong economy.
What creates a strong economy is fairness and decency.
I'm going to give your colleagues half a go.
Dan, I'm going to go to you.
Well, I’ll just refer to you the Institute of Health and Welfare saying that 140,000 of our fellow Australians already are delaying or not having pathology tests because of the costs.
But I might get Catherine to talk about how this is an important addition to protecting and preserving our existing system.
Listen, I think the original question comes from a story I read in the Fin by Nicholas Lenaghan, and then it was followed up by a question here.
We've said, and I went and checked when I saw the story, said how come this page is down, they said they're updating it.
I can't add any more at this point.
Yes, we will.
Do you want a little more detail than yes?
I will just keep moving around.
Jade, did you want to ask a question?
Listen, I don’t want to second guess the Government on this.
These kids should not be a political football.
Obviously the grandmother has worked very hard to try and see these children's welfare is put back up the top of the charts.
But I'm not going to engage in criticism of the Government when I'm unaware of exactly what they have done.
In terms of what happens when they come back, the experts will be looking at it, but I have got no doubt there's a fair bit of trauma there.
I don't know any of us could imagine if our kids were dragged to those war zones and terror zones and we've all seen some of the images of what Sharrouf exposed his kids too.
These kids need to be given a little bit of room and a lot of love.
Probably if they can get a lot of love then I suspect that will be the best way to help reabsorb them into Australian life.
Well first of all there are no jobs on a dead river.
And South Australia has been handed the rough edge of the pineapple when it comes to the current Federal Government.
Labor put in place the plan for the basin, getting the balance right between river survival and therefore job survival and fish survival, and ecological survival, and agricultural needs.
There’s no doubt to my mind that for anyone who cares about the future of the Murray-Darling Basin, anyone who lives in South Australia, anyone who is concerned about the fish kills that we saw this January and over the Christmas holidays, this Government has failed.
So we want to put the Basin Plan back on top.
Obviously we want to bring all the stakeholders together, including South Australia, southern irrigators and northern irrigators, because at the moment, this is an ecological disaster and the story in The Advertiser really spelt that out pretty clearly I think.
Listen, that will be a matter for the national executive.
No-one is above the law.
Unionist, banker, Clive Palmer.
No-one is above the law.
But in terms of the national executive matters, I will leave that to the Labor Party.
Well first of all, Mr Dastyari is no longer a senator.
He paid a pretty big price, I think, for mistakes he made.
I'm not about to get – he's got a right to a life after politics, as I think all political people do.
But I’ve just got to go to this issue of pathology.
Is the Government really arguing that we shouldn't be investing more in pathology?
Is the Government really arguing that we shouldn't put downward pressure on the cost of pathology so that we can make sure that we maintain our bulk billing system?
If they are arguing that then they are more out of touch than I originally thought.
Thanks, everyone.
I think our CPAs are excellent.
Love accountants.
I notice there was the usual propaganda from News Limited which said that we are against the professions.
We’re not.
But really, in this country, can we afford to be giving away millions of dollars of tax subsidy to people for the cost of minimising their tax already?
I mean we are talking about the taxes which nurses and tradies pay to Canberra.
I would rather use that taxpayer money for the best schools in the world, for the best TAFE, for the best aged care, for the best health care system.
It is a matter of priorities.
Am I surprised that a vested interest whose business model relies upon tax subsidies isn't happy if we are going to reform it?
No.
I get why they might not like it.
But we’ve got to ask ourselves in this country, are we just a country who wants to maintain tax subsidies and loopholes for the big end of town, or are we a country who wants to invest in our people?
At the end of the day, we are not changing the ability of accountants to do work for their customers.
We are just saying that perhaps once you are paying over $3,000 a year to an accountant you shouldn't be able to deduct that off your tax.
It is not, it is not how it has been characterised in News Limited and I expect to see more of these dishonest scare campaigns about Labor.
But at some point the political process in this country has got to put ordinary people back at the top of the pile.
We’ve got to start saying, “Do you want your kids not to be able to get all the classes they need, be they kids who need special needs, or be they kids who need extensions and advancements in their class?
” Do we want to be a country who can't afford to be alongside you when you are in the fight of your life on cancer?
Do we want to be a country who does nothing on climate change?
Do we want to be a country who just says, well, we'd rather give a tax subsidy to someone claiming $1 million and let them write that off their tax when they have already minimised their tax beyond that?
It’s all about choices and values.
We want to run an economy which is fair and decent, not one which supports lower wages and cuts to real services.
Thanks, everybody.
I imagine we would feel if Sydney – if the Opera House was to catch fire or Sydney Harbour Bridge.
It's devastating for the world.
I've been there, I remember when I first was a young backpacker it was one of the – in the time before GPS, Notre Dame was one of the ways you would navigate around Paris, on the island in the middle of the Seine.
More recently, I remember running through the early morning streets, doing a run through Paris, and you run past the brooding, gothic cathedral that is Notre Dame.
It's devastating.
I would like to echo something that Malcolm Turnbull has just said.
I think Australia should contribute to a restoration fund.
Notre Dame doesn't just belong to Paris or France, it belongs to the world.
I think we, all of us who've enjoyed that architecture, that history, we too should perhaps rally around and help Paris and Notre Dame.
I think it's worth Australia investing in the restoration of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame doesn't just belong to Paris or France, it belongs to the world.
The whistle has been blown on the Government's secret cuts to spending in the Budget.
This Government is promising tax cuts in five years’ time for some people, but it's doing it on the basis of $40 billion worth of cuts.
The secret’s out, this is a government with secret cuts to spending in its Budget to fund its promises on the never-never, for tax cuts.
This government has form.
They've never seen an education or health profile that they didn't want to cut the spending to.
What this means for every day Australians is that the problems we've seen with increasing costs of healthcare, longer waiting lists, underfunded schools – the Liberals have form.
When it comes to a choice between looking after the top end of town and looking after schools and hospitals, sadly, they always look after the top end of town first.
I'd say last week, the Government said there wasn't a problem with cancer funding, they said it's all free.
This week, now they're saying we're not spending enough.
The fact of the matter is that when you're in the fight of your life, you shouldn't have to be worried about the out-of-pockets.
So we're going to increase bulk billing from about 40 per cent-plus to 80 per cent.
I think that cancer makes you sick but it shouldn't make you poor.
And we absolutely believe we're on the right track.
I mean Medicare should be there for when you need it.
And when it comes to cancer, one in two Australians will be diagnosed by cancer in their life.
We just want to make sure that people don't have to be distracted by massive out-of-pocket bills which is the current problem.
Oh, I'm not getting ahead of myself.
What we're going to do is not focus so much on the Government and the personalities but on our plan for the future.
I think Australians are sick of an economy which isn't working for them.
The fact of the matter is the cost of childcare has gone up under this government.
The cost of seeing the doctor has gone up.
The cost of energy bills have gone up.
In fact, everything's gone up except people's wages and I think what Australians want is a plan for the future.
That's why we're going to take real action on climate change and restore all the cuts to schools and hospitals.
It's about putting people in the middle of decision making.
Well first of all, we don't accept that.
This is the Government who's raised more taxes than anyone before us.
And as our promises come out during the course of the election campaign, this government untruth will be exposed for what it is.
But let's be clear here: it's all about choices in this election.
This government wants to give tax cuts to the top end of town, this government wants to keep spending taxpayer money on subsidies to the lucky few.
We want to make sure that we've got better hospitals and schools, that's what we want to do with our scarce government resources, look after working and middle class families.
Well I don't hold the children responsible for the mistakes of their parents.
You know I don't know all the circumstances but I can understand why a grandmother wants to see her grandchildren safe at home.
What I don't understand is what on earth possessed the parents, one, to pursue this hateful ideology of the terrorist ISIS organisation but dragging your kids into the middle of a war zone, no parent who loves their children would do that, would they?
Well I think you've got to work on that.
We've got to make the kids safe.
It's difficult.
We'll work with the security agencies but I don't hold the kids responsible for the mistakes of their parents and I think that's just the humane thing to do, isn't it?
Good morning everybody.
It’s great to be here at Casey Hospital in Melbourne’s south eastern suburbs.
You were just hearing from Simon Curtis, Labor’s candidate for La Trobe.
I’m really pleased to announce that a Labor Government, if elected on May 18, will contribute an additional $250 million to help reduce waiting lists for elective surgery in this country.
I just want to unpack that term waiting lists for a moment.
It sort of sounds benign doesn’t it, the word waiting lists, the words waiting lists, it’s like waiting for a spot in a restaurant.
But waiting lists in the health context are anything but benign.
I just got to catch up with a gentleman called Leigh, his father’s been waiting and he’s now had a double knee replacement and a double hip replacement.
That waiting time is painful.
When we talk about waiting lists increasing 10 per cent under the Liberal National Government in Canberra, what that means, is it means a lot of our fellow Australians, hundreds of thousands of them, are waiting longer to have painful, painful surgery resolved.
If you want to be Prime Minister of Australia, the pain which ordinary Aussies are going through should be a priority.
That's why Labor is going to find additional money in our budget because we prioritise reducing the waiting times of our fellow Australians.
That's what this announcement is about, $250 million, which is about helping Australians get more timely treatment.
The thing with a lot of the surgeries is once you have the surgery, it works.
The cataracts removed, the hip replacements, the arthroscopies, the knee surgery.
So once you get the surgery it actually puts people back in control.
But the longer you keep people waiting to get this surgery, well that means that you're collaborating and keeping people in pain longer than they otherwise should.
That's why Labor is going to make the economic reforms we are, because why should Australians wait longer while the top end of town enjoy unsustainable tax subsidies?
This election is not about a whole set of complicated personality issues, what it’s about is choices.
I'm here in the fast growing corridor of the south eastern suburbs of Melbourne, talking to staff, talking to patients, talking to the experts.
We want to reduce the waiting times which our fellow Australians are experiencing.
If we can help alleviate the pain which our fellow Australians are living with right now in their lounge rooms, as they wait for the phone call to find out when their surgery is on then that is actually the right thing to do.
What I’d now like to do is invite Catherine King to talk a little further about this announcement, and I should also say here today, and it’s great, it is a testament to Simon Curtis and Anthony Byrne’s work and Catherine King, that Labor will also put $22.
4 million into a mental health in-patient ward.
There are some real challenges in the outer suburbs of Australia, not just the outer suburbs, but the south eastern suburbs of Melbourne have not been immune to the tragedies, clusters of young people self-harming and worse.
This in-patient ward will make sure people who require the help get it now.
You know the problem with our system is that sometimes we can triage people then we push them back out into the world and without that further assistance, then the inevitable happens.
I would like to hand over to Catherine now.
Thanks, Catherine.
Are there any questions on this or other matters?
Because the doctors want patients.
The beauty of having the bulk-billing is that if you don't want to bulk-bill for the higher amount of money which you're getting, so we're giving the specialist or the service more than they're currently getting under Medicare, but if you don't want that patient, they'll have more choices.
Because once we lift the rates at which we reimburse for the treatment or the particular procedures, what that means is that if you don't want to do that and you want to charge more, someone down the road is actually going to accept the new, more generous fee and see more patients.
So it is competition, friends, and competition is going to, I think, provide a better service.
It's estimated that we will increase bulk-billing rates from somewhere below 50 per cent to somewhere around 80 per cent.
But let's go to the heart of the matter – and I think Catherine said it pretty well – last week or when I made my Budget Reply speech, we saw the Government just basically say you know, I don't know, in a fit of jealously – whatever – they just couldn't wrap their heads around how the real system works, they're out-of-touch, so what they said over a week ago, is they said: "well there’s no need to look at Labor's new plans to help with out-of-pocket costs for cancer because there aren't any.
It’s all free in the public system.
"  Well this is a case where fantasy met reality.
We have been inundated with touching stories, real stories, and I’m sure some of you either know them, have seen them or you might indeed be affected yourselves, or have family affected.
There’s a massive out-of-pocket crisis in terms of costs for cancer.
But I notice that the Government having initially said there was no problem have now said that Labor is not funding it enough.
You’ve got to love these guys, they’re the cheeky brigade of Australian politics.
They’re either saying we’re not doing enough or we’re doing too much.
Well let's just put all their noise, their white noise of their failed policies of cuts in hospitals and health care to one side.
Let's put to the side the fact that they froze the patient rebate.
Labor has got an exciting plan on cancer.
Cancer makes you sick but it shouldn't make you poor.
And the fact of the matter is there are literally hundreds of thousands of our fellow Australians in the fight of their lives and one of the greatest concerns they have isn't recovery - it's how will their family cope with paying the bills.
We want to take that burden away from Australians.
We've said we'll work towards 50-50, so the answer is yes.
Our best estimates is that this has been a cut of $2.
8 billion, and what I do appreciate about your question is, your question recognises the truth of what's happened.
This government, this Federal Government, has decreased the proportion it contributes to the states.
I'll get Catherine to supplement it, but in Victoria alone, our policy is funded because of our strong economic reform agenda, about reforming taxation, making multinationals pay their fair share.
It means that in the next five years we can stop the cut of $635 million to Victorian hospitals which this government is proposing.
But I’ve got Catherine here and she is very keen to talk about this.
No but we’ve said we are going to radically reduce the out-of-pockets.
I can't stop a patient who just wants to go exclusively for private treatment and doesn’t want to go through the bulk-billing system.
And nor should I if that's what someone wants to do.
But what I can say to hundreds of thousands of Australians is that Labor will be alongside you in the fight of your life.
The unarguable facts, the black and white facts, the unarguable proposition is that we, because we are going to wind back unsustainable tax concessions at the top end, and we’re going to wind back some of the free ride that multinationals have been having, so that we can pay for the most significant injection of new funds for cancer treatment since Medicare was created.
First of all, as you would know, this is a very fast-growing region.
I don't know if you're aware, but Casey in the south-east, in this region, 362,000 people live here which is a massive growth on 10 years ago.
It's projected these suburbs we are in now are going to grow to 560,000 people.
There is no doubt in my mind that this Federal Government has walked away from promises it made to help the states fund 50 per cent of the health system, of the hospital system here.
This government tends to play a game with numbers.
They tend to say because the population has increased and they're forced to spend more money than they previously did, that's the end of the matter.
No, it is not.
If you've promised Australians to meet 50 per cent of the hospital component, then you go back to 45 per cent, that is a cut, it is a cut, it is a cut.
And the reality is that waiting times have gone up.
So I don’t think it’s enough for the Government to say that they’re doing more than they once did, therefore they’re excused.
The reality is that this is a cut on what they promised.
It is not keeping pace with population growth.
Take, for example, the mental health announcement we just made.
There are tragedies in these communities.
There are clusters of our young people who are self-harming, and worse.
There have been funerals here where there’s been a thousand people and kids, they go along, where someone has taken their life.
There are clusters of behaviour we need to help people with.
It is not enough for this government to say that a patch-up job, not even keeping pace with the out-of-pockets is good enough.
It’s just not.
We want to promise Australians that if you have a diagnosis of cancer or someone you love has, we are going to invest more support than you've ever had before in the fight of your life.
No, it is not a simple question because of this, the population growth.
Sorry, you keep asking the question.
This is a government who promised to spend a certain amount of money in order to get people's votes and then they broke their promise.
This is a government who has cut $14 billion off what they promised in public schools.
That's a fact.
This is a government who promised to pay 50 per cent to the states for the administration and help in their hospitals and are paying 45 per cent.
That is a cut.
And unfortunately, we have a government who thinks that not keeping their promise, cutting services, is good enough.
I tell you what, I’ve got a different plan.
I’ve got a plan for all Australians, not just the corporates.
The fact of the matter is that this government has pursued one economic plan for the last three years – a corporate tax cut for the big end of town.
This government is fighting tooth and nail to retain unsustainable tax giveaways to the top end of town.
They have not done enough to make multinationals pay their bills.
So I'm not satisfied with the Government's history or record on these matters but indeed it’s not me who has to be satisfied, it is the Australian people.
I'm the only leader in this election, out of me and the other fellow, who’s offering to put extra money into cancer.
Is anyone here seriously saying that extra money into cancer is a bad idea?
Is anyone seriously saying here that extra money into mental health to stop young people taking their lives is a bad idea?
I didn't think so.
It’s cancers, howsoever they are.
We're not picking different cancers.
But I might get Catherine to talk a bit further about the range of propositions that we’re going to do to help people with their out-of-pockets.
No.
No, I'm not.
I think the issue though for the Government is that three years ago they said, "Vote for Malcolm Turnbull.
" All of them – Mr Morrison, Mr Dutton.
They all queued up to have their photo taken with Mr Turnbull.
They said, "If you vote Liberal and Malcolm Turnbull, that's what you'll have for three years.
" Ever since then they've had division and dysfunction and disunity.
So I think that the one question, for instance the local member here in La Trobe, Jason Wood, he voted for Peter Dutton.
He was happy to have Peter Dutton as Prime Minister but he's not happy to be photographed with Peter Dutton in his own electorate.
The same goes for the Health Minister, the same goes for a range of Liberals in the south-east corridor.
They gave Australia dysfunction and division, they’ve annoyed a lot of voters on the way through.
I think the one question they have all got to explain is why isn't Malcolm Turnbull still Prime Minister of Australia?
We’re intending to form a majority Government.
That's the case we'll put to the Australian people.
Well, before you write off our chances, I won't.
First of all, the MPs, Mr Wilson and Senator Lines have re-confirmed again this morning that they support Labor Party policy.
For the sake of clarity, the Israeli Ambassador representing the Israeli Government said they could work with both sides of politics.
Labor Party policy is very clear, and all of my candidates and members have signed up to it – a two state solution.
Sorry, let me answer your questions.
Our policy is very clear, we support a two-state solution – that is the right of Israel to exist behind safe and secure borders, and the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people for statehood.
We’ve got a lot of good news for small business.
First of all that you can vote for either side of politics with the comfort of knowing that we are both committed to businesses under $50 million, reducing their tax rate from 30 to 25 per cent.
So that’s good news.
That frees up money for small business.
But we’ve also got another exciting proposition for small business, which has been very well received when we explain it to people.
It’s this.
We want to give an accelerated depreciation to businesses who invest in productive investment greater than $20,000.
Or to put in plain English, if a company, say they run a food business, want to buy a new fridge, what we are going to do under a Labor Government, and this hasn't been matched by the conservatives, is add 20 per cent extra tax deductibility on the investment.
So if they are making a marginal decision to invest $200,000, under a Labor Government they'll be able to deduct, on top of what they can already deduct, an extra $40K.
So this is good for small business.
In terms of wages, a lot of things get said about wages.
We just simply say this – the problem in Australia is everything is going up except your wages.
We want to have a discussion, we want to have a living wage not just a minimum wage.
And what we want with that is to implement it in a consultative fashion.
One of the things which has been lost in the Government's fear campaign is the detail that any wage increase has to be agreed by the independent umpire, and then it has to be implemented on economic capacity to pay.
So I get that small business is hearing all sorts of, you know, scary and mad things from the Government.
But I just, through you, Shane, want to reassure small business – we're the equal on tax, we're better on the deductibility for investment, and when it comes to wages we get that you have to implement these things in a modest and meaningful way.
We have got to acknowledge capacity to pay.
And, beyond that, when millions of Australians, be they people on the pension, be they wage earners, are experiencing wage stagnation, massive cost of living increases pressures, that means people have less to spend in the small businesses.
We need to be an economy which sees growth not just for big business, but for all Australians.
And millions of Australian wage earners are now dipping into their household savings, living on the credit card far more than they should.
That's because we’ve got a government who is out of touch and doesn't get the central importance of cost of living.
Who’s next?
Oh, well done, Clive.
Listen, we talked about small business before.
Most Australian businesses know they have to pay their workers every week, fortnight, or month.
This guy wants a medal for, after a couple of years, to pay back money which the taxpayers had to subsidise.
Do you know what I find it amazing?
He could find $20 million or $30 million for TV advertising and billboards but he couldn't find the money to pay his workers.
Ninety-nine per cent of reputable employers in this country pay the workers first, then pay for their own head to be on a billboard, not the other way around.
This is this government scare campaign.
They can't work out who they are most days, this government.
On one hand they say that electric vehicles are a bad idea.
Now they’re saying that there’s a plan to exempt the rich.
Can we just all tune out the Government noise on this and let's go to the fundamentals of our electric vehicle policy.
By 2030, we have a target, that 50 per cent of new cars in Australia are electric-powered.
Now this is not going to be as hard a target to reach as some say because from 2025, big companies like Toyota are only going to be making electric vehicles.
Under this bunch of vandals called the Liberal Government of Australia, they got rid of our car industry.
The fact of the matter is that Hyundai –Hyundai is a Korean company, is not greatly interested in Australian politics, but even Hyundai has had to come out and just set some facts on the record.
No one’s ute is going to be confiscated.
You can buy whatever car you want.
But what this government actually wants you to do is to say to Australians: "We're going to give you old technology only.
We don't want you buying cars which are going to be cheaper in the future and which are more fuel efficient.
" I mean, this is a government who wants to deny the car-buying public of Australia choice, competition and lower prices for cars.
For low-selling vehicles?
Which vehicle models are you talking about?
For example?
For example, which ones are they?
I'm not familiar with those elite motor vehicles.
Which sort of cars are you talking about?
No, what is going to happen is that you’ve got to be fuel efficient and we are going to sit down with industry and work on it.
But somehow if the Government is trying to say that Labor has a secret plot for there to be more Rolls-Royces in the garages, no, that’s just more sort of daily madness from the Government.
Oh Lord.
The Government, they've had six years and now all they can do is talk about us.
Do you know my concern with the Government is that they haven’t worked out that out-of-pocket costs in cancer are a real issue.
My concern with the Government is that they're not matching our proposal to have a mental health in-patient ward here.
This government has had six years to come up with their great ideas in health.
All they've done is cut.
They haven't kept the promises they made early on.
And as a result Australians have missed out.
Yeah, I know, it's confusing, don’t worry most Australians make that mistake.
Oh listen, I've got my diary, I spoke to the West Australian, we’ll give them two dates and I hope Mr Morrison can fit in with us.
Mr Morrison – all of a sudden – he didn’t want to have Parliament now all of a sudden I’ve got to change my whole campaign to suit him.
We will have debates.
We will do the best we can to fit in with every state and every media outlet but there’s only 33 days or 34 days left.
I don't think the current Prime Minister or Mr Dutton have satisfactorily explained to Victorian voters or Australian voters why Malcolm Turnbull is no longer the Prime Minister.
But Catherine King was the Shadow Minister for Health when that fellow was the Health Minister, so I would be keen to hear her insights.
One more question, is there someone who hasn't had a go?
What's your first name, sorry?
Okay Rob, I appreciate you asking the question.
I want to thank the media for letting somebody who is not a journalist to help us finish off the press conference.
Rob, I’m going to take some time and have a chat to you after the conference because I want to understand what has happened.
In terms of the contamination or the cancer would that be Fiskville?
What I would like to do is talk to you to understand the background.
But in terms of how we pay for cancer in this country, I can't speak for Mr Andrews.
I can pass on your disappointment to him, but I can't speak for him.
But what I can speak for is – I haven't been Prime Minister in the last four years but if I am Prime Minister I do want to reduce your out of pocket costs.
Now if you've had a very fortunate experience of everything's been free, that's great.
But I can tell by the fact you’re shaking your head that that hasn’t happened.
I want to do better.
I apologise for what you've had to go through.
I don't feel responsible for the current Government, but as anyone in public life I hate to see someone who has been a volunteer, you’ve got a six-year-old daughter, you're in the battle of your life – that's tough.
What I can say to you is we are going to fund six million extra scans.
What I can say to you and to everyone else is that we are going to fund three million extra visits to the specialists.
What I can say to you is we are going to fund cancer research, put an extra $125 million into that.
What I can say to you is that we are putting an extra $500 million into our hospitals.
Rob, you don't have to believe anyone but I'm going to have a chat to you.
I just want to understand because, to me, what you're talking about is the exact reason why I'm running for Prime Minister.
You know, we can make all the chats about all of the other issues and the gossip and the Peter Dutton’s and the disputes, I get that sort of annoys people.
If you're in the fight of your life, I am interested in your story, you matter to me, regardless of who wins or loses.
So I appreciate you being here and I want to have a chat to you.
Thanks, Rob, I think that's a pretty good note to end it on but we'll see each other on the trail.
Thanks, everybody.
Thanks Anne and good morning everybody.
It’s great to be here on the Central Coast.
I’m feeling a little bit of parent guilt.
I’m a netball dad, I love seeing netball and my own daughters play it.
We’re here today though for a very good purpose.
Australia is the skin cancer capital of the world.
Two out of every three Australians by the time they're 70 will get a diagnosis of skin cancer.
Even worse, over 2,000 Australians will die this year because of skin cancer-related illnesses.
And the thing about skin cancer, unlike perhaps some of the other cancers, is it's almost entirely preventable.
I think it is very clever when Anne Charlton and the team suggested coming here because what these young girls who are playing netball are told every day by their parents when they go out to play netball is make sure that you put on some sunscreen.
That's what Chloe always tells our kids when they walk out the door.
But it is now overdue for the nation to take a guide from the parents of Australia and have a national campaign to tackle skin cancer by preventing it.
This is one cancer where we can actually have a massive impact through sensible prevention.
It has been over 10 years since the nation has had a national campaign to encourage young people - all Australians in fact - to slip, slop, slap.
So today we're announcing, in conjunction with the Cancer Council, Slip, Slop, Slap 2.
0.
After a decade of inaction we now want to have a national advertising campaign to encourage Australians to take preventive action when they go out into the sun.
We don't have to be the skin cancer capital of the world.
It's up to us to prevent it.
We've learnt a lot in recent decades but it is now time, just as we have done with our tobacco prevention campaigns, just as we’ve done with the rest of our packages to fight the scourge of cancer.
It’s now time after a decade of not taking action, to have a national Slip, Slop, Slap campaign 2.
0.
I would like to invite Catherine King to talk further and then we will have a guest from the Cancer Council to talk even more about what we're going to do.
Just before we get into questions I should acknowledge that arguably Australia’s best mare is going to be racing later today, Winx I obviously refer to.
She is history on four legs.
And whilst getting a big bet on her is hard, because she is such low odds, her value isn't in the bet, it’s in the fact that we have got a horse like this which has brought such excitement and passion to racing.
I wish her and her connections all the very best for today’s big race.
First of all, let me say about Melissa Parke, she has done the right thing - she doesn't want to be a distraction in the campaign.
She has very strong views.
I don't share those views but she has very strong views.
She has felt in the context of this election campaign that she would become a distraction and she has stepped down.
Because Melissa, like all our candidates, cares more about having the Labor Party succeed, than a particular individual.
Well first of all, we didn't have a candidate in Curtin until recently.
To be fair, neither did the Liberals.
She thought she might have another go at politics but she has decided it’s not for her, she’s done the right thing.
She has very strong views.
I’ve got different views.
My view is that a two-state solution in the Middle East is the way to go.
And I also have a view that Israel has the right to security behind its own borders and the Palestinian people have a legitimate interest in statehood.
She made that decision.
No, what it is, it’s about a candidate who has decided she doesn't want to be a distraction.
There are plenty of views about the Middle East, longer than we have time to debate here at this press conference.
In terms of Melissa Parke, she has served the United Nations working with refugees.
I'm not about to start attacking her.
But she has made a principled decision that she doesn't want her views on a particular topic to become a distraction to the election.
I just say to Australians, this shows you how determined Labor is to be united and to present its best foot forward for the people of Australia.
What we have here is a team who are determined to get on to the issues that matter most to Australians - that is, of course, turning back the cuts to hospitals and education by this current government.
Making sure we can get wages moving again, because at the moment everything is going up but your wages.
Seeking real action on climate change and encouraging greater investment in renewable energy, and if we do that of course that will lower energy prices.
Yes, Labor will choose a new candidate.
Well I wasn't there so I don’t know.
What this is a story of is that we have is a candidate who is determined that her views might distract the election and she doesn't want to do that.
I respect that.
Over to you.
The Liberal Party is full of climate change deniers.
If they weren't, Malcolm Turnbull would still be the Prime Minister of Australia.
The Liberal Party is full of climate change deniers because for six years they've been incapable of forming an energy policy.
You would be aware there have been 13 different energy policies in Australia.
No wonder energy prices have been going up.
Because we have a Government who's paralysed.
As for Mr Turnbull's personal actions, I mean, his party bailed out the Liberal Party, the Liberals didn't object to Turnbull money when it was going to them but, clearly, they have a problem with their support going to independents.
I think the Liberals - do you know how they'd avoid this whole mess?
Take real action on climate change.
It was a fundraising function which many people were at and what I was hoping to do was raise money.
Well I've answered this question before.
I'm very conscious and I can guarantee that my party is doing everything it can to eliminate any constitutional doubt over any of its candidates.
We have had the advantage that a lot of our candidates have been in place.
The Liberal Party has, to be honest, had to rush.
In plenty of places they've only just got their candidates last week.
So I guarantee Australians that my party and the processes of my administrative officials are do everything we can to make sure there is no controversy.
You're next.
What I envisaged when I said that Newstart should rise is it's pretty low now.
I don't know how many of you could live on 260-plus bucks a week.
Most Australians couldn't.
So I do think it should rise.
In terms of how much, we have said we will review it.
I wouldn't pre-empt a review.
But what I say to people on welfare is a Labor government is not into poor shaming.
We’re not into making you the cheap target to divide our community.
What we want to see is a robust economy.
Obviously the best solution to unemployment is a job.
But I don't want to be dividing this country and attacking vulnerable people who could well be unemployed for a whole lot of reasons and making them the target of community resentment.
First of all, this electorate has many pensioners on a fixed income.
Literally thousands were kicked off the pension or part-pension by this Government.
So I say to the pensioners I haven't forgotten you.
And I say to older Australians more generally, be they people getting a Government payment with no means test - which is what these franking credits are - or a Government payment with a means test, which is what our age pension is – I am determined to help reduce the cost of living pressures on you.
So for instance we have been very successful in forcing the government in recent weeks, with the hot breath of an election on the neck of the government, to make sure that they unfreeze the Medicare payment.
What I will do is make it less unaffordable to go and see the doctor.
When you're old you need to see a doctor more.
I am going to make sure that in our health system on the Central Coast, just as in every other part of Australia, that what we have is a system where it’s your Medicare card not your credit card.
I also say to older Australians a vote for Labor will see downward pressure on electricity prices.
It becomes almost like a Steven King film to go and get your electricity bill under this government.
They have had no plan on climate and as a result there has been very little investment in new generation.
So when it comes to cost of living, when it comes to standing up for the pensioners, when it comes to healthcare costs, we'll be right alongside you.
I haven't determined the end of the review but it will start after the election of a Labor Government.
I think ACOSS is entitled to their point of view.
If you are saying that is what ACOSS says then I am sure that is their opinion.
I am shocked that, one, Mr Dutton hasn't had the good grace to apologise and, two, that Mr Morrison hasn't asked him to apologise.
It just shows me how weak this Government is.
Peter Dutton was within three votes of becoming the Liberal Prime Minister of Australia.
I think Mr Morrison is acutely conscious of that.
So to some extent I don’t understand why Mr Morrison hasn’t asked him to apologise other than I can only conclude that he is a hostage of Mr Dutton.
But why don’t we get Kristina Keneally’s point of view.
She has been campaigning with Ali France and she was also a Minister for Disabilities in the State Government.
So I think she will bring some perspective to these offensive remarks.
I think you answered your own question.
It is independent.
I wrote to the current Prime Minister and said I thought we should respect days that are sacred  to the nation like Anzac Day and also Good Friday and we put in Easter Sunday.
But it is a free country.
I can't make everyone else do things.
You did say they're independent and that's right.
I just also want to go to a deeper point here in light of Kristina's quite impassioned statement there.
I met parents back on the court.
They are an all-abilities team.
So their daughters have actually played for Australia overseas in netball.
But they have an intellectual disability, some have been in the Special Olympics.
In case there are some people out there who say, “Oh, well, politicians say mean things about other politicians with a disability, that's just part of the the political debate.
" I just want to say to every Australian parent who has got a child with a disability, we do not accept what has just happened.
See, when you are the parent of a child who might be autistic or have an intellectual disability you are frequently judged by ignorant people in your own community.
If your child might be acting out, people might say, "You're a bad parent.
" I’ve got friends who have a disabled child and someone in the crown slipped up to them and said, "Why did you have another child?"
when they have two disabled children.
Words hurt.
Words hurt.
We are having a royal commission into abuse of people with disability.
Not all vicious words end in abuse, but all abuse of people with a disability started with vicious words.
Our party is democratic and Ms Parke has made a decision to step down.
No, it was a fundraising function.
All donations in the Labor Party over $1,000 are reported.
Did you know the current Government only reports donations over $13,000.
It is a fundraising function, part of the job - for better or for worse.
It's not the children's fault for what their parents did.
I think we have to work out the best approach for the children's welfare.
So, that's not a "no".
I don't know all the circumstances, I don't know if they have family here to look after them but I don't blame the kids for their parents' stupidity.
We'll adhere to the law.
We’ll adhere to the science.
I think, though, that what we saw in the last few days was decision making at its worst.
The poor, old, beleaguered Environment Minister, who hasn’t appeared comfortable in the job anyway, she gets the letters from the LNP colleagues, the thug brigade of the LNP in Queensland saying unless you do this we will publicly call for your resignation.
Then they miraculously leak the threatening letters.
I think that is the worst possible way to do business.
The sooner this Government is shown the door the better.
And the sooner we have a national anticorruption commission, that can't be too soon in this country.
Thanks everybody, see you at the town hall meeting.
Thanks, Brian Owler, Labor’s candidate in Bennelong, and Catherine and I have both found Brian a great source of advice and insight about our cancer Medicare package and we look forward, if Catherine’s the Health Minister and I get elected, of using Brian’s skills in government.
First of all can I just thank the Avner Institute.
This is a very important visit.
It’s important because it reminds us all, the marvellous travelling media gallery we’ve got with us and politicians like ourselves.
Reminds us what this election’s really about.
Nothing is more important than family and health care.
Today we're announcing $125 million for more cancer research.
We’re here at the Avner Institute as pancreatic cancer is such a challenging cancer.
We’re here because we want to provide $20 million to help reinforce the marvellous work they’re doing here.
We’ve got the world’s best researchers.
We should have the world’s best funded research.
We should make sure we give the world’s best researchers the tools they need, to help beat cancer.
I’ve found this morning’s visit quite moving.
I got to talk to Susie, she’s just outstanding.
She’s battling with a diagnosis of pancreatic cancer.
Strong, elegant, just determined and resilient.
And as we were talking about the challenge of pancreatic cancer, it tends to put everything else back into perspective doesn’t it?
She’s working in a residential renovation business, she’s very creative, does a lot of the design.
And what happens is that when you get this diagnosis, all of a sudden the stuff which you normally worry about is far less stressful.
It puts your priorities perhaps where they need to be.
I was also talking with Paul.
Would you believe that I actually ran into Paul when we were on holidays down on the south coast of NSW two summers ago?
Paul perhaps wasn’t aware fully of my role as the Opposition Leader, but we had a good chat at the time and that’s fair enough.
Got to work on that.
But it was only a short time after that, that he got the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and his father passed from it 20 years earlier, and Paul made the comment to me that he was surprised how much things hadn’t changed.
He’s got a 12 year old, a 13 year old, he’s got a 17 year old, he’s got children.
This is the fight of your life.
This is why we are so proud of pushing billions into helping the out of pocket costs of cancer.
This is why we’re pushing hundreds of millions of dollars of that into public hospitals to reduce waiting lists.
This is why we are putting money into research.
You know, Mr Morrison and the government they love to say that I’m the enemy, and you know sometimes in politics we carry on too much against each other.
I want to say today the government are not my enemy.
Cancer is my enemy.
What we want to do is fight cancer and do the very best we can.
That’s why we’re making the choices we are, as we present our policies to the people.
I’d now like to invite Catherine to talk further and we’ll hear from the Avner Institute as well.
Thank you.
Are there questions?
I’ll start on my left and work around but we’ll try and cover as many as we can.
I’ll certainly go to those remarks, but are there any questions on the cancer research announcement first?
I mean, no but that’s cool if, I mean it’s pretty self-explanatory.
If there aren’t?
Oh listen I think Brian is a very good candidate.
How many seats in Australia have got a surgeon of his track record and his public policy leadership?
Brian Owler's taking a significant financial hit, to run for Parliament, and that's his choice.
But he's done a lot of good and we were just speaking to a lovely lady in there, Sharon, who's been working on the scanning machines for 45 years and she said to me that patients are going to be disappointed because he's done so much for them but Brian's willing to subject himself to this and all the other issues, Labor's very lucky at the moment we've got a very talented front bench, I promise you Catherine King will be an outstanding Minister for Health.
We've got some very talented people running in hard seats, Brian Owler hasn't asked for the easy path through a safe Labor seat.
Bennelong is a very difficult seat for Labor to win.
But how lucky is my party that we're attracting people of his calibre, his knowledge.
I think it speaks volumes for him, and perhaps even a little but for our united party, you know we're the party of unity but Brian can answer some of the more detailed questions in a moment but I want to go to this question.
I've noticed it percolate through conservative blogs sites or other forms, you know, or some of the government ministers saying there's no problem with out of pocket expenses in cancer.
If you believe that go and ask someone who's getting cancer treatment right now.
We've set up a website in the last few days, just to ask people's stories.
We've had hundreds of heart breaking stories.
If the government is so out of touch that they think that there's no out of pocket problem with the treatment of cancer, I suggest they talk to people diagnosed with cancer.
I met an amazing lady at the Royal Brisbane Hospital, seems a lifetime ago but it was Monday, Elaine, she's had a diagnosis, she's been battling cancer since 2011.
Nothing has worked, she's had to go into the private system, get the cancer trials.
She's a really warm lady, I would put to you that 100 per cent of you here would hope that she was your neighbour, she’s a lovely lady.
She said to me, "Bill I think we're now down to ten per cent chance, we're going to try one more drug".
But she just held my hand and she just said "what worries me is not what happens to me, it’s that my family will be left with a debt.
" And, you know, go and ask the number of people that have to access their superannuation just to pay for their cancer treatment bills.
So listen, I think the government shouldn't be running this argument that everything's fine and dandy, because it's not.
Yes the public system's excellent.
But there are waiting lists, massive waiting times.
And I want to give you, even I as a lay person have worked out this about cancer - you can't out-wait cancer.
Cancer makes you sick, but it shouldn't make you poor.
There is a problem.
Labor has deliberately made hard decisions, not totally popular with everyone, to say that you can't get a tax subsidy on your sixth property investment, but we are saying, "I would rather use taxpayer money to help Susie and Paul" - these are real people we're talking about.
This isn't a theoretical debate or a Canberra game.
Pancreatic cancer is a shocker.
The Avner research, formed out of love, why shouldn't it have some government money?
I don't know if you want to hear from Brian too on this question.
We'll get Brian, and then I'll come.
You can in a moment.
But I promised I would start here.
Sorry.
I'll come to you soon.
Ali France, let's just get some background here, so we understand.
I find Mr Dutton's comments disgusting.
How you can launch a personal attack on a person who suffered an above-the-knee amputation trying to protect their child, and then say somehow they're exploiting that, you know, I just want to tell you what happened with Ali France.
And she can say it better in her words.
She was in a shopping centre.
She's got her little four-year-old boy.
An elderly driver lost control of their vehicle, smashed into them.
She shielded her four-year-old, as any mother would do, and she took the full brunt of the collision.
She suffered an amputation above her knee.
And for people who are amputees above your knee, that is even more difficult in terms of recovery.
For two and a half years, Ali France never walked.
She was told she would never walk again.
Now, she credits a fantastic surgeon.
She credits fantastic technology.
Two and a half years after she was told she would never walk again, she did.
She's a very strong person.
Of course, as you would know, though, you could imagine when you have, if you haven't been through it, or had a family member go through it, when you're an above-the-knee amputee, you can't just have a shower like anyone else, you can't just move around your kitchen.
She's a strong woman, she walks a lot, she's out there every day.
But what she had to do was modify her house, because it can be so draining sometimes, she uses a wheelchair in her house so she's got all her energy for outside the house.
As anyone would know when you look at houses, very few of them have been built, designed for the use of older people, people with mobility problems, or, indeed, people with disabilities.
She spent over $100,000 of her compensation money just getting the house she lives in.
She doesn't own eight or nine houses, by the way.
She just owns the house she lives in.
She invested over $100,000 of her compensation money just to get that house right.
She doesn't own eight or nine houses, by the way.
She just owns the house she lives in.
She invested over $100,000 to get that house right.
She's a strong woman.
And, by the way, she knows that Peter Dutton's making these comments because he's scared of her.
What else could motivate it?
She doesn't want people's sympathy.
The idea, though, that any Australian with a disability would rather use their disability than not have the disability is a fiction.
She never wanted the car crash.
She never wanted the amputation.
But she's a strong person.
We want more diversity in our Parliament.
So, why is it that the very - a mother who lost her leg protecting her child is now subject to a personal attack by a scared government minister?
I think - I think that is disgusting.
Now, I know the government boasts about, you know, going after Labor - don't they get it?
This country is sick of that rubbish.
I think Mr Morrison should make his colleague apologise.
I also remind you that a week ago - it was a week ago today - the government announced the Disability Royal Commission.
And their words were excellent words, beautiful rhetoric, soaring.
They said, "We've got to have a culture of respect towards people with disability in this country.
" Well, that didn't last very long, did it?
You know, so what we have here is Mr Dutton has insulted every Australian with a disability, and Mr Morrison has said, "That's OK.
" So, you know, Ali France is campaigning.
She was at a railway station this morning.
She understands - she can recognise fear in her competitor when we see this sort of base personal attack.
But is this where the government's got to?
That they're going to start saying a person is using their disability?
Especially, all you had to do was get that 60-second back-story that I told you.
I think, when you single out parts of the population with an offensive attack, I think the rugby authorities have acted in an appropriate manner.
I don't really want to get into everything that's been said, but there is no freedom to perpetuate hateful speech.
And, you know, some of the comments which have been seen are far closer to hateful than I think appropriate for what people should be doing on social media.
First of all, I think this is a desperate government who are willing to lie about anything.
I just want to go to what Senator Cormann said in Estimates.
This is why we struggle to take the government seriously on their campaign of lies and untruths.
Senator Cormann was asked - there was a Treasury person asked a question by one of our Labor senators, and it was about costings.
And Senator Cormann said - these are his words, they're not mine - we'd better tell that Western Australian Minister that.
Senator Cormann said, "That is not the Treasury's job.
The Treasury does not cost Labor's proposals.
" 20 February.
Now, apparently, either he was lying then, or we're seeing lies now.
The other thing is about this, the government insists on characterising us shutting down loopholes and unsustainable subsidies to the top end of town as taxes.
Let me use an example.
Accountants' exemption.
What happens is, you can, if you're fortunate enough to have a million dollars to deduct, you get that million dollars, you get the accountant to look at the deductions, you can write off a million dollars of your tax - sweet.
Did you also know that in Australia that, if that accountant charges you $100,000, you can claim the cost of minimising your tax, even what you paid the accountant to do it?
And if we are going to stop that loophole, that is not a new tax.
That's cracking down on a loophole.
This government have become so addicted to defending their mates at the top end of town, they no longer recognise the difference between a tax and just protecting a rort.
No, I'm not even buying into that debate, because it's a false debate.
I'll use another example.
This government I think from its propaganda is somehow saying that a tax cut in 2025 - which they haven't legislated - so, in other words, they're promising you something in 2025.
We think there's a better way to do it, we don't agree with them.
But it's not actually the law.
They're now saying that, because we won't agree to something they haven't done in six years' time, that that is a tax increase on Australians.
This is a fairytale.
And I tell you - just hang on, Jono - to further answer your question, the reason why I don't even accept the basis of what they're saying, it’s this.
We all know the government wants to run a scare campaign.
They've run out of anything positive to say about anything or anything, haven’t they.
So, they just want to scare everyone.
The reality is this election is about choices.
I choose to shut down loopholes, like that accountants’ exemption.
I choose to support not giving a property investor a subsidy for their sixth house, and instead I choose to spend it on health care.
But I want to remind Australians, who are getting - on day two of an increasingly rancorous political debate, Liberal, Labor, National, who do you believe, what’s going on, I just want to say to Australians, this election is about you, the people.
It's not about us.
I want to say that whilst I disagree fundamentally with how this government's fluffed up the last - mucked up the last six years, their instability, costs of living, everything going up except your wages, their cuts to schools and hospitals, I don't see the government as my enemy.
I see cancer as my enemy.
I see as my enemy when people can't afford to see the doctor or get the treatment they want.
And Australians, I think, want to hear more of that from our politicians.
It's clear that we want to spend more money on public schools.
That will have an economic bonus.
It is clear that we want to have universal kindergarten for all three and four-year-olds.
Did you know Labor's policy is to provide 15 hours a week, 40 weeks a year, to all three and four-year-olds?
The dividend of that means that those kids, when they get that preschool, kindergarten education, are going to have a much better learning experience at school.
The smartest countries in the world already do this.
What we choose to do is spend scarce and important taxpayer money on educating the kids, on decreasing the out-of-pocket costs of, you know, cancer treatment, rather than spend it on tax loopholes like deductions to accountants for $1 million, or property subsidies.
The other one which is a big, you know, I go to now - just to help explain why we mean I don't accept their figures at all - is that at the moment in Australia, we give nearly $6 billion in tax credits to people who don't pay tax.
This is called a gift.
And it's a nearly $6 billion gift.
And it's going to increase every year.
So, when we say we're not going to give the gift anymore, that is not a tax increase.
It's just a decision to improve the bottom line of the budget, it's a decision to fund our health care.
One in two Australians will get a diagnosis of cancer by the time they’re 85, the average life expectancy, one in two of us.
And it’s expensive, and I just want to make sure that when you’re in the fight of your life we’re alongside you.
You're next - and then yourself.
I'm 100 per cent confident, that Labor is right, to stop allowing people deduct hundreds of thousands of dollars off their tax for what they pay their accountant.
Just hang on Rich - your question, but my answer.
So I'm 100 per cent confident that what we can do, that this is a fairer system.
Why should someone who pays a million dollars to their accountant, to minimize their tax for millions more - why should we pay for the double dip?
I mean it's a sweet deal, it's not illegal, but enough's enough.
How long does this go on before we say I'd rather fund the school where your kids go to, and I'd rather fund pancreatic cancer research?
Timmy - Richard, I've given you - we've got plenty of time, another 35 days for better or for worse - Tim and I'll come back.
Well I'm going to be in Perth, and I'm more - I'm going to be at a town hall meeting talking to the people, and I'm more than happy if the other fellow comes along - ok, that's fine.
Secondly, it's a shame that Mr Morrison, or the government I should say, just saw fit to have ten days of Parliament in eight months, cause isn't that where we do a lot of the debating?
I'm certainly up to a couple of debates with him, certainly, but I want the people involved.
But what I'm going to do in this election, by all means, let's have a couple of debates, I think that's appropriate and conventional, but I just want to say to the Australian people in the next 35 days, we want to keep hearing from you, we want to talk our positive plans.
This is a very clear choice.
Everything in Australia is going up except your wages.
We've seen cuts to schools and hospitals.
When you go and see the doctor, in the fight of your life for cancer, the out of pocket costs can be horrendous for too many of our fellow Australians.
This nation is sick and tired of rising energy prices, we're sick and tired of no real action on climate change.
We've got solid plans which put working and middle class people at the centre of what we do, and we're going to talk about that, we're going to talk about how we're going to help the pensioners, we've got plans to help small business, we've got plans to help, of course, you know, our tax position - we're offering lower taxes for 3.
6 million wage earners, and we're offering a better deal for small and medium sized businesses, when they invest more than $20,000 in new, depreciable productive equipment and capital expenditure, we're going to accelerate the depreciation.
Sorry, someone who hasn't asked a question first.
Well, the politicisation of Treasury is a problem.
I mean the current head of Treasury spent ten years working for Peter Costello, worked very closely with the current Prime Minister.
I worry that we see the trashing of conventions in our Westminster system and an independent public service, so I do see problems with that.
But that's okay, I expect in this election, the government's attack on Labor to get louder, shout-ier, more aggressive, and more exaggerated, I guess that's the price we pay when we have a government who's got nothing positive to say about the people.
Sorry, is there anyone who hasn't asked a question.
Well, the real estate agents, obviously, it's in their financial interests to keep taxpayer money flowing to their business model.
Yeah, no I'm telling you what's really going on.
You've got to ask yourself, why are they campaigning?
They're campaigning because they like to have people bidding for houses, who are getting a taxpayer - because the more people they have bidding for houses, the more they can charge their percentage on the sale.
But this is what's really cute about what the real estate agents aren't telling people, or the institute, not each  - I don't hold each real estate agent responsible - this negative gearing relies on a principle that you invest in property, make a loss, and the government subsidizes you.
I don't believe the Australian property market needs a taxpayer handout to make property worthwhile.
In this suburb here, there's no new land.
This argument that somehow, Moody's has forecast the property prices will rebound - this is a scare campaign by vested interests who love getting taxpayer money.
But why should a nurse, or a truck driver, pay their taxes to Canberra to subsidise someone to buy their sixth property?
You know, this Saturday, and I don't know if you'll have time when you're on the road, you go to a couple of auctions, and you will see couples, who've worked hard, they've got together their 20 per cent deposit, they're ready for the you know, fees and charges, and they'll just simply get out-bid.
Under this government, property prices have fallen, but they take no responsibility for that.
Under this government ho voted 26 times against a Banking Royal Commission, they let the banks run amok, now the regulators, you know, had a big reaction and are now all over the banks, the banks don't want to lend as much money - when does this government take responsibility for the shambles of the last six years?
We think currently the vast majority of negative gearing subsidies, go to people who invest in existing housing.
We would like to see that oriented towards new housing.
So the other thing I should just make, ican't say this enough, because I'm not sure that some of the vested interests who love their government taxpayer subsidy to prop up their business model will tell you, our changes are not retrospective.
Any Australian who invests up to the 31st of December 2019, under the current laws, they'll be negatively geared.
It's not a retrospective change, and you can still do it for new housing.
Is there someone who hasn't asked a question?
Well I don't know what's going on in the last seven years in the Ecuadorian Embassy, and I suspect, you know that'll come to light over coming days.
He's an Australian, so therefore he's entitled to consular assistance, no more, no less, but he's certainly entitled to consular assistance, I noticed the government said the same thing.
We're not reviewing it - Newstart's too low.
And we're not reviewing Newstart to keep it at such low levels, but we've got to get it right, you've got to see the interaction with the tax and transfer system.
I mean, Newstart is just part of a broader problem.
The problem in Australia is that everything's been going up except people's wages.
We need to see that, and we're seeing a lot of people being left behind.
This economy is not being managed in the interests of working and middle class people.
Perhaps we can do one more question here, and then we'll move on, over to you.
I think there has to be, but let’s see what happens with the review.
I'd be amazed - we're not holding a review to lower it - we're not holding a review to forget about it like they did with the energy payment.
But again, just to finish up, I would like to thank the Avner Institute for the work it's been doing.
I want to thank, in particular though, Suzie and Paul.
They just remind me of what's important.
It was a good wake up call, when you get that diagnosis, you're going to worry less about your texts, and a little bit more about your family and what's important.
I promise Australians, that during this election I'm going to do my very best to focus on you - that's why we are committed so heavily into revolutionising help with the cost of cancer.
Thank you very much.
Good morning Michael.
It will be a matter for the legal system to proceed, he should receive the support any other Australian citizens should receive, the matter is going before court so I don't think there is much more I can add.
I have only read what you read.
Mr Assange is entitled to his day in court.
I'm not going to pre-empt that.
I think he should receive consular assistance beyond that, I don't know all the facts of the matter and he should deserve the ability to be able to represent it in court which he will be.
I think the state election had a range of state issues, there is always a lesson there and we're not complacent.
What we are doing nationally is we're not relying on the fact we're the Government.
They're divided, their third Prime Minister and 13th energy policy and a lot of the team are retiring and have given up.
But we think it is a more important issue then just the Government.
We want to outline a fair go plan for Australia, a positive vision for the nation.
We want to re-win people's trust in the system and we are going to do that by focusing on families cost of living, the fact that everything in Australia is go up except your wages and we are going to really push hard on the fact that we want to have the world’s best health care Medicare system.
We have outlined an exciting vision to help people when they are in the fight of their lives by radically decreasing the out of pocket costs when you have got a diagnosis of cancer.
We want to re-invest in our three and four-year-old kindergarten, we want to make sure our schools are the best in the world, that they are properly funded.
Of course, 150,000 new apprenticeships and 250,000 university places.
The real issues affecting families, we want to pass on a better deal to the next generation than the one we inherited.
That includes tackling lower energy prices, making them lower by reinvesting in renewables and taking real action on climate change.
Listen, the Liberals are lying about taxes.
Let's just call it as it is.
I don't want to spend this election talking about them but let's go to it.
What we call unsustainable subsidies for the top end of town and rorts for the multinationals they call tax increases if they want to fix it up.
They have a different view.
I want to use our taxes to invest the best schools in the world and invest in looking after our older Australians and invest in the best health care system in the world.
I want to keep alive the dream, it is our Medicare card not our credit card that determines our health care in the country.
That is our priority.
This government is lying about taxes.
What they do is they are just saying unsustainable subsidies and rorts and looking after the top end of town.
They think that when you tackle that, that is increasing taxes.
No.
Let's go to one.
One issue they say is terrible, the Government and Treasury and let's face it, these days quite often Treasury just says what the Government wants them to say but let's go further.
One of the rorts we want to shut down, did you know that if you want to deduct millions off your tax, you get your accountant to do it.
Did you know you can also claim as a tax deduction the hundreds of thousands dollars you give to your accountant to deduct millions out of the tax system, you can even claim what you pay the Government as a tax deduction.
Most Australians won't access the system.
Why on earth is this Government defending the ability of the super wealthy to pay their accountants, to minimise their tax and then even claim the cost to pay their accountants.
It is a sweet deal, but it has got to stop, this nation can’t just keep funnelling money out of the top end when we have got waiting lists in our hospitals, massive out of pockets for people who have been diagnosed with cancer.
It’s about priorities, I'm for middle- and working-class people.
The fact that bank said this tells me a couple of things.
It tells me the biggest drop in housing prices has happened under the Coalition Government.
I give points to the Coalition Government.
They want to bag Labor for policies that are not even in when they are presiding over the drop-in prices right now.
They were asleep at the wheel when the banks were carrying on like the rules didn't apply to them.
Now they have got the regulators all over them, but the point is we have had a government that has presided over an unethical banking sector, remember they voted 26 times against the banking royal commission.
When it comes to the housing market lets nail a couple of facts into the ground.
If you currently invest in negative gearing, under the current rules, it doesn't change.
The changes are not retrospective.
I will tell you what will happen on Saturday right around Sydney and Melbourne and the cities, you will have young couples who worked hard to get the deposit together, they have got to pay other costs and charges and they will be out bid by property investors who are getting tax support from the young couple and other taxpayers of Australia.
I want us to be a country where you can buy your first home, you don't need taxpayer money to buy your 10th home.
It is a matter of priorities.
We could use some of that money we are paying to the property developers to make sure we can help defray the cost of child care and reduce the number of age care places.
It is a choices-based election, this country can't keep giving money to a few people and disadvantaging young people coming through.
There will be no change to existing investors.
No, that's right.
Someone's got to have the courage to stand up for the next generation, that's what we will do.
Listen, people ask politicians, they seek this campaigning.
Our view on coal is clear.
Let me restate it for the record: Coal and our gas are important industries going forward.
They are important to our exports and that will be part of our energy mix, but I am going to take real action on climate change.
This country has been broken politically for a decade because we haven't been able to move forward and take real action on climate change.
The biggest reason why households this morning are paying higher energy bills is because there is no energy policy.
Thirteen energy policies from the government we need real action to hand on a better deal to our kids and to reduce power prices for our family and our businesses.
It is up to them.
If you want to talk about bullying, how about that LNP trying to threaten Melissa Price's job?
No, I’ll tell you what my Labor colleagues they are adults, they can sign or not.
Doesn't change our policy and our policy is as simple as this, we get that fossil fuel and coal is important to export and power generation but I promise Australian who are fed up with the dysfunction and disunity of the Government on climate change we need to act.
We need to embrace the future, renewable energy will help lower energy prices and that is the direction we are heading in.
No pressure from the Government or conservative media is going to deter us.
We're not going to sell-out our kids because we're afraid of the right wing of the Liberal Party.
Look forward to talking.
Hope so, see you.
No, Deb.
It's great to be on your show this morning.
As for where I campaign, I campaign over all of Australia because I think Australians are sick of politics as usual.
I don't view Australia as Liberal or Labor, I just view it as Australia and we have all got the same challenges.
Everything is going up except your wages.
We have had six years of massive instability in the Government and people just want to see proper investment in their kids' education.
Making sure that when you're sick it's your Medicare card, not your credit card that determines your level of health.
They want action on climate change.
So, we are about cost of living and that's why I started in a suburban backyard because that's where Australia is.
It's the families around the dinner table wondering what the future is going to hold and how Labor can help them look after their family and their health.
Yeah well, there is a way to go, things close up.
But what I'm going to do is focus on the people.
I happened to catch the tail end of the other fellow's interview and it's all pretty negative, and I suppose if you've run out of ideas that's where you go.
We have got a positive plan for the future of Australia.
I think Australia is over the fact that we can't take action on climate change and that our energy prices have gone up.
They want to hear what we are going to do to help get wages moving.
They want to know we can properly fund our hospitals and our schools.
And today, I've been at the market here at Flemington.
This is a fantastic market.
It is the centre of the cut-flower industry in Australia, Mother's Day is coming up, lots of growers and I've also been over to the growers shed with the fruit and veggies - a lot of small businesses here and I think they were interested to hear our ideas to help small business as opposed to big business.
The Liberals are lying about tax.
I don't want to talk too much about it.
That's just a bucket of lies.
Whenever Labor closes a tax loophole the Liberals call it a tax increase.
Whenever we stop unsustainable subsidies –
They are not correct.
There you go, short answer too.
Oh no.
Listen, you and I know that, and more importantly Australians know, this is a Government who is going to run on fear and negativity.
For me it's a choice.
Do we want to spend tax subsidies giving property investors their tenth investment property or pay accountants a million dollars to minimise your tax and then let the very rich claim their payment they made to the accountant as well as minimising their tax, or do we want to spend the money on making sure that when you are in the fight of your life with the big C, cancer, that we help you with your out of pocket costs?
It's a question of priorities.
This government want to give away our taxes to the top end of town.
We want to see taxes spent on education and hospitals.
At the end of the day, Deb, we can over-complicate politics.
It doesn't matter if you are in the market here, or on the farms where the produce is being grown or in the middle of our big cities, the mums and dads wondering what to do with their kids on school holidays, it's the same thing.
It's about family and it’s about health.
If your family is ok, and your health is ok then everything else is a possibility.
So we are prioritising cost of living, health and education, lower energy bills and we are going to go forward on that, not tax cuts for the very well off.
Let's go to the heart of the matter, I'll try and answer it as quickly as the time will permit.
But on property, let's not be confused.
If you invest, if you negatively gear currently under the existing rules, for your investment that you've already made, it won't change.
So actually no-one who is negatively gearing is affected.
But going forward, we can't keep handing away billions of dollars to fortunate property investors, many of who are buying their fifth or tenth property when our schools and our hospitals are not properly funded, when we have got waiting lists for basic surgery, lifesaving surgery.
So it's not retrospective the changes, and also going forward, you'll still be able to negatively gear for new housing.
In terms of the rest of the propositions, I'll put it as simply as this: our tax system is making it harder for our young ones, our millennials, the younger people to be able to even buy their first home.
We have got to start creating a level playing field.
I want to keep alive the dream of owning your first home, not being able to property invest in your tenth home.
Cheerio, bye-bye.
The election has been called and today the case to vote Labor is that we will deliver more jobs, better health and education.
Take real action on climate change and renewable energy and help push energy prices down.
We'll get on top of cost of living burdens and we'll get wages moving again in this country.
And, we can manage the economy in the interests of working and middle-class people because my team is united.
Australians face a real and vital choice at this election.
Do you want Labor's energy versus the Government's tiredness?
Labor's focus on the future versus being stuck in the past?
Labor's positive plan for all Australians or a negative fear campaign from the other side?
Do you want a united government under Labor or another three years of division following the last six years of division under the current Government.
So these are important choices; energy, positive, future focused and united.
You know, my political philosophy is very straight forward.
What we believe in, is making sure that the economy works in the interests of working and middle-class people.
When everyday Australians are getting a fair go, then this economy hums.
We get good jobs, not just casualised labour hire, part-time jobs.
We want to see the cost of living genuinely tackled.
The biggest problem in Australia right now, is that everything is going up except people's wages.
We also want to make sure that women get a fair go in our society.
You know, we can over-complicate politics sometimes.
Politics is about people and it's about family and it's about health.
What Labor wants to do is we understand that Australians want to hand on a better deal to the generation to come after them, than the one they inherited.
That's why we're going to hand on a better deal with a world-class education system.
From pre-school to schools to TAFE - 150,000 places - to universities.
And we want to hand on a better environment than the one we currently have by taking real action on climate change.
We want to make sure that we hand on a better deal to our kids when it comes for them to be able to afford to buy their first home, rather than favouring property investors buying their fifth or sixth property.
And of course, there's no issue any more important to Australians than their health.
If your family's health is okay and your health is okay then everything else is possible.
If you've got a challenge with your health then everything else tends to take second place.
That's why Labor believes so much in our Medicare system.
We don't just want to have the world's best system of healthcare, we want to keep it the world's best system.
What we want to do is invest in our hospitals and reverse the cuts.
We want to make sure that our frontline of healthcare services, our GPs are properly resourced.
We want to make sure that people who suffer from mental health illness that they get the support they require.
We want to make sure that our age care system is genuinely looking after people as they grow older.
And of course, when it comes to health, there's no bigger battle than when you or a beloved one receives a diagnosis of cancer.
Cancer makes you sick, but it shouldn't make you poor.
That's why Labor has a vision to walk alongside people when they are in the terrifying battle of their lives.
People shouldn't be drowning in thousands and thousands of out-of-pocket costs merely because a government doesn't properly fund cancer Medicare.
So when you look at Labor's vision for Australia, it's an inclusive vision, we can deliver an inclusive vision which tackles inequality, which makes sure that your postcode or how much money you have in the bank doesn't become the sole predictor of how you fare in life.
We want the very best for this generation and the next generation and we can deliver this because we've done the work.
I think even our harshest critics would concede that we've been united for the last six years and that's what the Australian people want.
They want one Prime Minister for three years, they don't want a revolving door of politicians being consumed by themselves.
For me this election is very straightforward, it's a choice about being stuck in the past or a brighter future.
It's about having a positive view of what Australians can do together rather than a negative view telling us to be afraid of each other.
It's about handing on a better deal for the future, than the one that we've inherited from the past.
The last six years hasn't been Australia's finest six years, there's been instability, growing inequality, there's been wages stagnation, everything going up but your wages, energy prices up, the cost of going to see the doctor or seeing a specialist, the cost has gone up.
What we need to do is make sure that this country is working in the interests of everyone, not just the top end of town.
We've made serious reform decisions, to make sure that multinationals pay their fair share of tax.
Australians are sick and tired of the big companies doing better and better and better, treating tax as an option, whereas everyday small businesses and medium-sized businesses or pay as you go tax payers, they just got to pay what they're meant to pay and they don't have the option - they don't have the choice of opting out of our tax system.
Australia is a great country and we can make it an even greater country, if we make sure that no one gets left behind.
This election is about you, the Australian people, it's about you, your family, your health.
Labor has got a plan because we're united, we have a vision and we've got a talented team.
If you are dissatisfied with the last six years, if you want better than the last six years, if you want a fair go for all Australians, if you want a government who is united and not constantly trying to tear each other down, then vote Labor on May 18.
Thank you very much.
Not at all, what this suggests is that I get what's going on in Australian families.
We have made a conscious decision to start the 2019 campaign in the family lounge-room of an everyday Australian family; two kids, two marvellous handsome little boys going to the local public school, both parents are working.
They're not complaining, they know this is a good country, they're paying off their mortgage.
They're doing everything they can do to provide the best opportunity for their kids.
But this election isn't about the personalities, it can't be about the back-biting and the division.
You know what people hate about politics?
It's that too many politicians are consumed by themselves, too puffed up about their own identities and they're not thinking enough about the people.
This election is about the people of Australia; it's about the cost of living, it's about wages stagnation, it's about doing something about energy prices, it's about making sure that we hand on a better deal to our kids when it comes to climate change.
It's about education, every parent in Australia, every aunt and uncle, every neighbour works hard and they want to make sure the kids get the best start.
That's why we want to properly fund our public schools.
And of course, this election is about health care.
Do you know, we over-complicate politics sometimes - that's all of us; the politicians, the media.
What we need to understand is what matters to millions of our fellow Australians is their family and their health.
Labor's got a plan to tackle the cost of living.
We've got a plan to get wages moving again.
We've got a plan to take real action on climate change which will lead to great investment in renewables and downward pressure on power prices.
We've got a plan for the health care system of Australia.
I couldn't be prouder of my united Labor team when we outlined our vision to walk alongside people in the terrifying battle against cancer.
One in two Australians will get a diagnosis of cancer.
Cancer makes you sick, but it shouldn't make you poor.
We are going to deliberately put much more money than ever before into our health system rather than sustain unsustainable tax subsidies to the fortunate few.
It's all about choices this election.
I choose better treatment for cancer and cheaper treatment for cancer than bigger tax loopholes for multinationals or more unsustainable tax subsidies for the fortunate few.
It's all about choices.
That's why we are here in middle east-suburb of Melbourne, Mitcham with a family who are fair dinkum because this is who this election is about.
It's about Jacqui and Richard Davis and their boys.
No.
And let's also be clear: anyone who currently invests in property and they make a loss and get tax subsidy paid for by everybody else, they're the current tax rules - the changes will not affect them.
Our changes are prospective.
But I tell you how this family will be positively affected by us reforming the tax system, by us deciding that a person buying their tenth house is not more important than a first home-buyer.
And it will affect this family positively: there will be more money for their children's education, there will be more money when their children are sick and need to go to the hospital, there will be more support for their parents in aged-care, there will be more support in the community to make sure we can help put downward pressure on energy by investing in renewables.
It's all about a choice.
The Government choose to defend tooth and nail, to the very bitter end, people who can afford to buy 10 properties and claim a subsidy from the Government.
I chose to fight for the future, I choose to fight for families, I choose to fight for cost of living.
My feet are firmly planted in the backyard of a Mitcham house because I understand that politics should be about the people, it’s about the cost of living, education, health, good jobs, renewable energy.
I might just, I want to share a couple more questions and then we will finish up for this one, we will have plenty of time to chat with us on the campaign.
I think we need to be full and frank about the mine, that's why I don't think it’s any particular coincidence that the Government went to the Governor General today on the day they were going to the CSIRO was going to be examined about its report into the Adani mine.
You want to talk about gagging?
What a coincidence the Government rather than facing the scrutiny of Parliament about the fairly politicised and bullying process of mine approvals has instead decided that today they want to have the election, that is what it is.
The Labor party's united, if you want to look at disunity look at the current Government, I don't want to spend today actually talking about the current Government too much.
My people are free to speak that's not the problem.
The real issue is, do you want united government in the future?
One comment I got right across the summer, people would come up to you and say "I have been a lifelong Liberal, like some of your policies, don't like others, but I'm contemplating voting for Labor this time, because the current Government just can’t get over the fact they all hate each other".
People are sick of politics as usual, my challenge, and your earlier question I will finish on this note.
You said: "is Labor the front runner?
"  We are competitive but my obligation and my pressure I don't feel comes from the Government so much as fulfilling the faith of the people.
A lot of Australians think the system is broken.
They think it is all just a fix and everyone is in it for themselves.
I and my team and the remarkable, Tanya Plibersek and the rest of my colleagues, and Shireen running in Deakin, Shireen Morris, running in Deakin.
We are motivated by a better future for Australia.
We are hungry to do the best we can for the country.
I can’t guarantee voters that Labor will be successful, that’s is in the hands of the people.
But I can guarantee the Australian people I am going to work my very hardest in the next 37 days as I have for the last 2000-plus days to organise proper ideas, to put a plan of social and economic improvement in front of Australian people, I think Australians deserve better than the last six years of politics and I'm prepared to offer them that vision.
Thank you everybody and see you on the trail.
Thank you, Justine.
It's great to be back in Ballina, great to be back on the North Coast for Patrick and Justine, Labor's North Coast team for the federal election.
I'd like to acknowledge North Coast Radiology for hosting us at the visit.
But in particular, before I get into our exciting announcement, I just want to thank Carolyn and Marilyn for taking the time to tell me about their stories.
You know, talking to them reminds me of what really matters in politics, very clearly.
Politics is about your family and your health.
If your family is okay and your health is okay, then you have got all the choices in the world, and all the dreams and thoughts.
But if you get a diagnosis of cancer, then all of a sudden, that is terrifying.
When I meet Carolyn and Marilyn, I just realise how strong they are.
They didn't choose to be strong, they had to be strong.
When they tell me that lung cancer can be a very lonely, lonely fight, what they're reminding me of is that there's no good cancer, there's just bad cancer.
And lung cancer sufferers suffer a stigma, perhaps unlike other cancers, and I promised Marilyn that I'd say this before I made our announcement.
Marilyn, and to all of those Australians who live with lung cancer, it doesn't matter how you got the lung cancer, if it was smoking or if it was through other circumstances.
Not all lung cancer is caused by smoking, but even if lung cancer is caused by smoking, I'm telling you now, when I talk to you, I just see someone who has lung cancer.
We make no judgements, but we do recognise that people with lung cancer have perhaps been stigmatised in the more general fight against cancer and today this announcement is not just about our general fight against cancer, and I want to help people with less waiting periods, with making sure that we help people with their out-of-pockets.
I just want to say to every Australian who's had a diagnosis of lung cancer, and to every Australian family member of someone with a diagnosis of lung cancer, that Labor understands your particular challenge.
Today, Labor is putting forward over $63 million to help in the fight against lung cancer.
This builds upon our multi-billion dollar war chest to help people deal with the out-of-pocket costs of fighting cancer.
To help with making sure they can get the scans, and the specialist's advice in a timely fashion to reduce waiting lists, to make sure that people in regional Australia are not treated as second class in the fight against cancer because they don't have access to the same resources and quality treatment as people in the cities do.
But today's lung cancer package is also about the future.
It's about making sure we discourage our young people, the next generation, from taking up smoking.
We would like to get rates of lung cancer, and smoking rates, down below 10 per cent.
Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death, and we want to change that.
Now, we will back in the research and will back in the other measures, but lung cancer has perhaps been neglected, and what we want to do is help people in the fight against lung cancer.
But also, we do want to discourage the younger generations from taking up smoking.
That's why it’s particularly good to be here with the Tobacco-Free Portfolio push, we are going to provide some money to help the campaign, and we will hear from the remarkable campaigners in a moment.
We want to make sure that we discourage investment in tobacco-related companies, so that we can help put downward pressure on the smoking rates.
Listen, that's enough from me, but I would like now to invite Catherine and some of her guest speakers to talk about some of our exciting initiatives to talk about the scourge of lung cancer.
Catherine has got one more exciting announcement for the North Coast today, our radiation centres.
Are there any questions on the lung cancer and radiation therapy announcements and then I'm happy to go to other issues?
I'll let Catherine answer that.
Any other questions about our fight against cancer and helping people with their out of pocket costs?
And I acknowledge that there are travel costs, the best way we're tackling that is we're bringing in the services to the people.
Right now people have to travel vast distances, I've just been in Queensland, people have to frequently go to Brisbane to get timely attention, same in regional New South Wales, Victoria, all parts of Australia.
So our 13 radiation treatment centres is I think a game changer in terms of being able to provide services.
Yesterday we announce $500 million to help our public hospitals that will help reduce the waiting lists for cancer treatment.
I don't know if you know but 83 per cent of our fellow Australians who get a positive result out of the government bowel screening tests have to wait beyond the recommended period to actually get treatment.
So our public system is spectacular but we ask them to do a great deal with not enough, our staff are fantastic - they do a great job.
So we're putting in $500 million, much of that will go to regional hospitals, to be able to provide it.
We were in Rockhampton, sorry Gladstone, in Gladstone hospital yesterday – I was also in Rockhampton.
What it means by providing assistance with some of this money is that 3000 people live in Gladstone won't have to travel to Rocky or Brisbane to get treatment.
So I think one of the best ways we help defray travel costs is to invest in the regions.
You know our Medicare cancer plan is actually a regional Australia health plan.
Too often the results in regional Australia in terms of fighting cancer are unacceptable.
And there's one reason.
Because the services aren't close enough to home.
Or they're too expensive or the waiting lists are too long.
If there are no other questions I'm happy to go to other matters.
This government - too little too late.
We've got a government in denial about the impact of climate change, we've got a government that is basically letting Australia's largest river system die because they have not allowed enough flow of water from the north to south.
This is what happens when you get a crony government who just focuses on one part of the river system and not the rest.
So, does anyone think if there was no election the government would have even done this?
Labor commissioned the Australian Academy of Science, a peak body of scientists in Australia and they made it very clear that climate change and river flow are the reasons why we are getting unprecedented fish kills.
Don't believe the people who say this is always what happens.
It is not.
This is part of the greater problem of climate change in this country.
This government is simply a broken government because they can’t agree on taking action on climate change.
We are handing on a more damaged planet to the next generation because this government can't make a decision on climate.
I don't know how many of you here have had the chance to see an extraordinary intervention from a group of people who don't normally intrude in the political debate.
No less than 23 former fire chiefs, leading experts.
the firefighters the front line.
the people who we count upon to keep us safe and to protect our property and farms.
Twenty-three former fire chiefs today have issued an extraordinary intervention, they have said that the Morrison Government, the LNP Government are not doing enough on climate change.
So this government, you know they ignore the scientists they ignore the parents they ignore the environmentalists they ignore the evidence.
But how can the Morison Government keep ignoring firefighters?
How can we be in a situation where we ask our firefighters to go on the front line to deal with the catastrophic effects of climate change yet not do the policies which will actually make their job easier, which can prevent future expansion of natural disasters?
I am pleased to say that my emergency services Attorney General Mark Dreyfus is meeting with the firefighters, with the experts today in Melbourne.
I will certainly be meeting with them in the near future.
This government, this election, one of the issues that's going to be a referendum on is that we want real action on climate change.
This government so far gives you no cause for any optimism that a vote for Liberals will be anything other than a vote for the same inaction, chaos and division on climate.
I didn’t catch that last bit?
First of all, we have said that we should not have foreign donations in our system.
So the matters to which you refer have already been previously canvassed in the media.
I understand the Government wanting to repeat old news to distract from their own problems but Labor took, we imposed a voluntary ban on ourselves not to take foreign donations long before the law caught up with it.
We asked the Government, The Liberals and Nationals to do the same thing but they didn’t.
They love that money.
They did not want to stop it flowing.
Now foreign donations have been banned two years later and I am pleased.
In terms of the issue arising out of what happened yesterday and the reportage on Monday night, what we see as a business model of the Liberal Party where powerful Liberal lobbyists pocket tens of thousands of dollars for organising meetings with their mates in the government.
This is a very bad look.
But that almost, believe it or not, that is not the key issue, as bad as that is.
What the real problem is that you have the former Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull, he has been the chair of the National Security Committee.
He is the leading spokesperson for three years on the national security of the nation.
He has blown the whistle on these revelations.
Not the ones which were already out there in the public domain, he has blown the whistle on revelations about this and he has said that Mr Morrison needs to explain this conduct and he has said that you can’t wipe it under the carpet, you can't brush it off as gossip.
What we have is the former Liberal Prime Minister accusing the current Government of not dealing with an issue and doesn’t that just highlight again the complete division and dysfunction in the Government?
Australians are sick of the infighting of the Liberals, especially when it comes to national security.
We have had plenty of meetings with all sorts of people we always talk about foreign policy; you can talk about domestic policy.
But one thing is for sure.
Any donation that was given to Labor and I thought, to the Liberals, is always disclosed.
You might not be aware but Labor has a self-imposed standard that if anyone wants to make a donation above $1000 it has to be disclosed.
What we have seen here on Monday is a revelation that senior Liberal powerbrokers are pocketing money for themselves, not even their Party, they're pocketing money for themselves, providing cash for access.
But I think, what has compounded the problems for the current Government is that the former Prime Minister, the man who the Liberal Party said we should all vote for in 2016, a man who they said we should vote for at the last election has now blown the whistle on the conduct of the current Prime Minister and his Senior Ministers.
How much division under the current Government is this nation have to put up with before this current Government realises they can't just cover up these matters and what they have to do is focus on the national interest of the people rather than their own infighting?
We have made very clear about donations.
The issue here is that it's not me saying that Mr Morrison is wiping this under the carpet, it's Malcolm Turnbull.
What is going on with these Liberals?
They are shaking hands and best mates last year.
No-one can forget the footage of Barnaby Joyce and Malcolm Turnbull after the New England by-election.
Mr Morrison putting his arm around Malcolm Turnbull in August of last year saying that Mr Morrison was ambitious for Mr Turnbull.
But because all of a sudden they are so bitter with hate, anything Malcolm Turnbull says is apparently wrong according to Mr Morrison.
This is not the way to run the national security of the nation.
This is not the way to run the Government of the nation.
A party that can't govern itself can't govern the nation.
And it is not me saying this, Malcolm Turnbull is criticising this current crew but the people of Australia are fed up with a lot of them.
Because I'm here.
I am not in Melbourne and the point about it is that is, two or three things.
One is I am very, very, very proud of the fact that Labor is enunciating a plan to help Australians in the fight of their lives.
We over complicate politics sometimes, it is all about the ‘gotcha’ and the division and the personalities.
When you strip away the rubbish and the noise and all the coverage of politics, what really matters is your family and your health.
I feel privileged to have spoken to Carolyn and Marliyn today.
Both these women are very strong.
They have had the shock of their lives cancer is not a journey, it is an ordeal, hell, it’s terrifying.
I could not be more excited, frankly, about what we are outlining because I realise that what we are doing is going to make a real difference.
Forget the noise.
Even in this press conference here, even if you did a survey on the street here, one in every two Australians will get a diagnosis of cancer in their life and ask anyone in the street here do they know a family touched by cancer, yes, they do.
And we know that the system, as good as it is, is not good enough.
The reality is that if you go through the public system, there are waiting times.
Great staff, great work but there are waiting times and there are out-of-pocket costs.
And a lot of people have to move between the public and the private systems.
I think it is a shock to a lot of people before they get that diagnosis of cancer.
That not only does cancer make you sick but it can make you poor.
The strategy for fighting cancer is to not out wait it on a waiting list to get a life-saving treatment or scan.
That is why I am here today.
In terms of what people are saying about wages policy, I understand the frustration of millions of Australian wage earners who are frustrated with the fact that everything is going up except their wages.
I mean your electricity bills have gone up 15- 20 per cent under this government in recent years.
If you are a small business your energy bills have gone up and up.
Your out of pocket to see a GP that’s up 20 per cent.
Your out-of-pocket to see a specialist up nearly 40 per cent.
There is no action in terms of wages.
If you work in hospitality and retail your penalty rates have been cut.
Women in industries where they predominantly employee women like early childhood education get paid less than the men do in comparable industries.
No wonder people are frustrated with the current system.
I have noticed that this government, they are so addicted to scare campaigns they ever want to scare you about their own policies because there are a lot of similarities between our policy and that of the Government.
I will hand over to a Senator who could host her own motoring show she is that expert on electric vehicles.
But the point about it in all seriousness is this, we must have one of the few governments in the world who has not read about the future of electric vehicles.
The reality is that all of the big car companies around the world are moving to producing electric vehicles.
What we want to do is make sure that Australia is in that debate.
We're giving Australians choice for cheaper vehicles powered by electricity.
It is very clear and all experts have said that electric vehicles over time over time are going to decrease the cost of owning a car.
But we need to send a signal to the world to start selling us cheaper versions of electric vehicles.
We want to be a nation that manufactures here, never let us forget that under the current Liberal National Government we lost the car industry.
We lost tens of thousands of jobs.
Other first world countries are manufacturing cars but our short sighted luddites gave up manufacturing cars in Australia but under us it is going to be different.
We have a three word slogan for Australia.
It is called made in Australia.
So we are going to fund this advanced manufacturing future fund and if electric vehicles are part of a manufacturing future we're going to provide them cheap finance.
I would like to see us make electric cars in Australia because Australians are top-class manufacturers when you have a government who supports them.
Speaking of electric vehicles let me hand over to the expert.
It seems a shame not end the press conference at that stage it was such a good point.
Are there any last questions?
We can't put back together what the Liberals have destroyed.
We can't bring Holden and Ford and Toyota back.
We had a great car industry and it certainly didn't require the sort tax assistance which this government gives multinationals or big banks, but they blew it.
They wrecked the car industry and I for one am not going to forgive them for that.
But you can't put it back together again.
But I don’t want Australia to be a country who misses out on the future.
How did we get to a set of circumstances where you ‘ve got a Prime Minister in a government campaigning against electric vehicles?
Let's just deal with the scare nonsense, no one is going to take your car off you okay, but why should we deny Australians in the next dozen years the opportunity for cheaper, more fuel efficient cars, world’s best technology.
When did this become a country who decided to pull up the drawbridge and say the rest of the world is too hard, we are afraid of the future and we are just going to live in a black and white world, no colour TV, an AM world not FM world, no Wi-Fi, no smartphones.
Australians are early adaptors, they love new technology, we will work with industry, we will work with the people.
We should be a country in my opinion who makes things, we can make electric vehicles, we are certainly not going to say no, but we have no specific plans of the nature which the Government is trying to cook up at the minute.
We have to walk before we run, first of all we have to get rid of a government who thinks that electric vehicles are the devil.
One final thing just to finish up - I just say to Mr Morrison, for goodness sake mate call the election.
I am relaxed when you call it, we're ready , we've got the policies, I've got a united team, we've got a vision for the future.
It’s no skin off my nose if you drag it on and on, the people of Australia deserve better from their Government, stop wasting the advertising, let's just call the election.
You can call it tonight, you could drive to Yarralumla, you do it tomorrow, maybe you do it Sunday, maybe that makes you feel very on top of everything, but the reality is there will be an election, let's get on with it.
The Australian people actually want to make a choice , six years of instability, six years three Prime Ministers, 13 energy policies, enough is enough, times up, let’s have an election.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks, Russell.
Great to be here with 5th generation coal miner Russell Robertson, Labor's standard bearer in the upcoming Capricornia election.
I am also here with Zac Beers who is running for the seat just south of Capricornia he is running in Flynn and he lives in Gladstone.
He started on the tools, he has been a representative of workers, I've got a couple of great candidates in Central Queensland here.
We've been at Hastings Deerings today, Hasting Deering's is a very good company.
It employs apprentices, it is bucking the trend.
It is one of the biggest employers of diesel fitters in the nation.
But what I see here, we could see in a thousand workshops right across Central Queensland and the whole of Australia.
I want Australia to go back to being a tradie nation, 1.
6 million of our fellow Australians got a trade qualification, my father was a fitter and turner.
But what we have seen under the LNP Government is we've seen a virtual destruction of so many apprenticeship positions.
A lot of people I think are surprised to learn that under the Liberals we have seen the Liberal-Nationals, we have seen 150,000 fewer apprenticeships now than there were six years ago.
But not to worry, Labor at the next election is presenting an exciting future for the trades.
What we are going to do is pay the upfront fees for 100,000 apprentices over the next three years.
Maybe some of the young TA’s here who are seeking to get apprenticeships next year will be able to benefit from our fee support.
And by the way we’re paying the fees, we’re not giving them a loan and asking for it back, this is just a grant.
Also what we said last week in our Budget reply is that we want to give some subsidies to employers – not a king’s ransom, but a certain amount, a few thousand dollars - to help provide the incentive to employ apprentices to give them their first start.
In your first and second year, apprentices are doing more learning than they are contributing to the bottom line of a business, but we’ve got to invest in our young, and we’ve got to invest in adults seeking to retrain.
So we’ve got a great plan for apprenticeships.
Pay upfront fees, work with employers, but also in Central Queensland, we’ve got an ambitious set of infrastructure works.
The Rocky Ring road, we want to do more with Great Keppel Island.
We want to do more about improving dual lanes between Yeppoon and of course Rockhampton.
We understand that Central Queensland needs good roads and that’s what Labor’s offering.
Apprenticeships, good roads and infrastructure jobs.
When you put that on top of the other exciting things we’re going to do, such as get wages moving again in this country, such as making sure that we don’t have the current status quo of wage stagnation, where everything’s going up but your wages.
We’ll offer Australians a wages policy, modest but meaningful wages growth, reversing the cuts to penalty rates, and we’re going to regulate shonky labour hire, because we’re sick and tired like most Australians of seeing permanent jobs replaced by casualised, contractor, temporary visa or labour hire jobs.
So we have a plan for Central Queensland and the working people of Central Queensland.
I should also say that it doesn’t stop there, and today I’m very pleased to announce that a Federal Labor Government, if elected, will invest a million dollars in the business case to make Rockhampton an international airport.
You shouldn’t have to fly south in order to go north from Rockhampton, our produce should be able to enter the markets of Asia, we should be able to see some of the tourist boom come straight from Asia to Rockhampton, rather than flying over Rockhampton to Brisbane or Sydney, then making the trip if you feel like it back up to Rocky.
Rockhampton Airport is a vital part of the future of Rockhampton.
It’s important in its own way as the cattle, as the mining, as the manufacturing, and the engineering, and the human services, and the educational services.
Rockhampton’s got it all.
What it needs though in Canberra is a Government who knows where Rockhampton is.
I’m really pleased with the fact this is my 13th visit to Rockhampton since I’ve been opposition leader, and this is a town which knows how to push on to the future, from the meatworks with Mr (inaudible) and what they’re doing there, right through to the tourism of Great Keppel Island.
People in Central Queensland and Rockhampton are always willing to take a risk, they’re willing to try to try and improve the circumstances of the local community, they just need a Government in Canberra who’s on their side.
So from apprentices, to wages, to backing in ‘Australian Made’, to making sure that we’ve got good infrastructure projects and of course tourism, Labor's got Capricornia's back and we offer Russell Robertson to be voted for in 6 weeks’ time.
Happy to take a couple quick questions.
Well we'll do it in conjunction with the Airport and the Council, I  mean we've got to do a business case to make sure the numbers stack up, but I am very optimistic about airports in regional Queensland in many ways just like railways were to 19th century Queensland, expansion of airports is to 21st century Queensland.
We shouldn't let the tyranny of distance stop Rockhampton from the growth it deserves.
The reality is that you shouldn't, if you want to go north, have to fly south.
I think we can break that tyranny of that by making sure we have Rockhampton as a more developed airport.
Because once you've got a more developed airport, once the case is made and the facilities and amenities are here, we'll see more flights - and it won't just be international - what we'll see is more competition on the domestic airline routes, and anyone who flies in North Queensland knows that the big airlines often take the passengers as a captive market and charge them horrendous amounts of money to fly distances where in other parts of Australia you can fly to Bali for cheaper.
We've got to back Australia, and that's why I want to see Rockhampton airport fulfil its position as a real economic engine of Rockhampton and Central Queensland.
Yeah but we've got to develop it.
Everyone knows that it's been one of the missing links, doesn't it.
And again, whilst you speak about Kirsten Livermore, the local member who has been here for the last few elections has been Michelle Landry.
So at some point, when does the current member become accountable for the lack of action?
I agree with the observation you make - that Rockhampton airport should have been developed a lot more than it has.
I agree with you.
But when do the current LNP members stop blaming Labor MP's - who haven't been members of parliament here for a long time - they've been getting good money for the last six years, they've been getting excellent money for the last number of years, when is it they actually do something for the wages they get paid?
When it comes to North - Far North Queensland, and Cairns - we see that tourism is a big part of that future.
So we've said that we want to do a number of things to develop Cairns and its role in tropical Queensland.
One of which, we want to put $60 million into the Cairns hospital to make sure that it gets the support it deserves.
The second thing we're doing is that we're also extending - we're going to take a billion dollars out of the Northern Australian Infrastructure Fund, and put it into a separate tourism fund.
Tourism is a big part of Cairn's future, international students are a big part of Cairns' future.
We also want to back in more infrastructure, so we've said that we want to build the road extending through Cairns going out to the Airport, because we think the congestion, especially in the Northern suburbs of Cairns is something to behold.
If you look at how the Northern suburbs of Cairns have expanded in the last few years, it's like suburban Australia.
And the traffic jams there are quite remarkable, and what we need to do is invest in the roads and infrastructure of the northern suburbs of Cairns, because it's one of the most liveable places in the world, not just Australia, but what we also need to do is make sure the road infrastructure is keeping up with what we do in Cairns.