We've been in that partnership for years now, formerly as a Treasurer and as Health Minister and now as Prime Minister, ensuring that we're driving the economy forward to enable Greg to be doing the extraordinary job he's been doing, guaranteeing these vital health services all around the country.
To our new parliamentary colleagues, Senator Wendy Askew it's great to be here with you today and last night as well and to Bridget Archer our Liberal candidate right here in Bass, we were together yesterday and last night down at Sporties.
Johnsy if you’re watching mate, you smashed me in pool last night, I had no chance against you.
It was wonderful to be sharing a bit of the time up last night at the Launceston Aquatic Center where I saw the South Esk swimming club and all of the young kids, members in squad training - they were awarded the Best National Swimming Club in the country in 2015, right here at Launie.
That's tremendous.
So it's been good to spend a bit of time here Bridget, in this wonderful electorate of Bass and to Gavin Pearce who is here, our candidate for Braddon and Jess Whelan who was also here today, our candidate for Lyons and Tanya Denison and Clare Chandler our Senate candidates here in Tasmania.
Part of a great Senate team which is being led here in Tasmania.
To Albert Van Zetten, the Mayor of Launceston and of course Tim Holder thank you for having us here today and for your comments about the positivity that is here in the north of Tasmania, the positivity that is here in Launceston.
I've been coming here for a long time and I can't recall a time frankly, when there has been such an air of expectation about what's happening here in Launceston.
It's a credit to the local business community with whom I'm pleased to be sharing the morning today.
The air of expectation, the investment, seeing the vision - and I agree Tim, the regional deal here in Launceston and in northern Tasmania has provided I think, a real catalyst, it has actually demonstrated that when we all work together local, state, federal government, the business community, well, stuff happens.
And stuff is happening here in Launceston, stuff is happening here in northern Tasmania.
The partnership between the Hodgman Government and my Government is actually forging the way ahead and businesses can see that.
They're backing it in through their own investments.
Unemployment has fallen from 8.
2 to 6.
5 per cent here in Tasmania.
In the last year of the Labor government, 1,000 people left Tasmania.
In the most recent figures 6,000 people came here.
That's why I call Tasmania the turnaround state.
What the Hodgman Government has done, working together with our Government federally has been to chart out, I think, the right path, which everyone is getting on and they all know is heading in the right direction, to where we all want to go.
Jobs for our kids.
Education and health services for our families and our communities.
Support for those with disabilities.
Support for those who are in aged care facilities.
Taking the dividend of a strong economy and investing it back into stronger communities.
A visitation record of 1.
3 million visitors here to Tasmania, an all-time record.
You know many years ago when I was involved in the tourism industry, that was the total number of international visitors that came to Australia, to Australia.
Now that's how many we have come to Tasmania.
It’s a credit to Tasmania, but I think it's a recognition of the strong growth that we've seen in our tourist industries.
Here in northern Tasmania, whether it's the tourist industry or whether it's the forestry industry, whether it's the civil construction industry, whether it's the medical instruments or medical technology industries, whether it's the new, bright, shiny industries or it's the traditional ones which we know carry the load in terms of keeping people in work and supporting people's incomes, we are supporting all industries across Australia to go forward.
The NBN is now 99 percent complete here in Tasmania.
When we came to government it was barely off the drawing board, now it’s  99 percent complete.
Forty seven mobile blackspot stations, $2.
7 billion invested already in roads across Tasmania.
Of course the Midland Highway $400 million, the Tasmanian Roads Package again another $400 million.
The Bridgewater Bridge replacement, all big projects for Tasmania that benefit the entire Tasmanian economy, as the tentacles of these big civil construction investments reach out into the supply chain across Tasmania and create that activity that generates jobs.
On our Defence industry plan, I can never go past Penguin Composites which I've visited and which Gavin will know all about there - up in Penguin, one of my favourite places - a business that started out making kayaks, out of just the sheer passion of the owner and there's some pretty good kayaking around that way – and is now making the bonnets of armored vehicles for our Defence forces.
That's been done in Penguin here in northern Tasmania.
So at the cutting-edge of chemical technologies, through to the traditional industries that have always been the mainstay of northern Tasmania, it's an exciting story.
There's $313 million for roads over the next decade in Tasmania that we've announced in the Budget.
$130 million to the Hobart to Sorrell Corridor, $80 million for the Birralee Main Road, Murchison Highway, Old Surrey Road and Massey green Drive and Strahan Road.
This is right across Tasmania, as I say, reaching out and supporting the economy all around the state.
And of course Battery the Nation.
Now pardon the pun, but this does light me up, 100 per cent.
I know it lights Will up as well, every time Will and I get together and we talk about Battery the Nation, we can just see its potential and we're just so anxious to get to the next stage.
So the Tassie Government is investing in the Battery of the Nation side of the project, we're working on the Marinus Link side of the project with $56 million already committed to get through the planning stages and hook the Australian mainland up to the great opportunities that are here through the hydro vision that was born here in Tasmania, so many decades ago.
It's a tremendous Tasmanian story, the hydro projects here in Tasmania and to know now, that the foresight of those who were there generations ago, will now be able to be solving significantly the energy challenges of the Australian nation going forward.
All born out of their vision and Battery of the Nation is a project with similar vision that Will has been leading and we are absolute joined-at-the hip partners to.
3,800 direct and indirect jobs alone, in terms of how we're proceeding with the Marinus Link project and yesterday I announced with Gavin, the $17 million Tasmanian Skills package, which is ensuring that Tasmania can be upgrading the skills of those who are already working in the sector or others coming in, to be able to fulfil this vision.
As you say we've got the challenges of getting the workers into these big projects.
I mean as we've been rolling out our infrastructure program now over many years, we are now - it's a good problem to have I suppose - that such is the level of investment that we're making in public infrastructure all around the country, that we're beginning to hit our head on the ceiling in terms of the capacity and the time that we have to actually get these projects done.
But I can tell you, when $80 billion dollars was taken out of the Australian economy on the other side of the mining investment boom, well, we stepped right up.
We stepped right in and that is why we're now in our 28th year of consecutive economic growth.
Because we had a plan.
We had a plan to deal with it, a plan to deal with it nationally and also a plan to deal with it locally.
The City Deal in Launceston $260 million to UTAS to relocate its main campus.
$19.
4 million to rejuvenate the historic CBD here and $95 million for the health of the Tamar Estuary.
Investing in services that Tasmanians can rely on, $6.
5 billion more for Tasmanian schools over the next decade, a per-student funding increase of 60.
6 per cent to 2029.
Let no one tell you, let no one to lie to you, that our Government has not been investing in the essential services that Tasmanians rely on.
We have, they’re the facts, they are the figures.
A strong economy, we believe, is built on the efforts and hard work of Australians.
It is built on the hard work and investment and entrepreneurship of small and family businesses.
Which is by and large the Tasmanian economy, overwhelming so, more so than probably any part of the country when you think about it, as a state.
That's why we've done what we have, on reducing taxes, extending the instant asset write-off.
Investing in things like the Defence industry and other major programmes and infrastructure and so on, to continue to drive the economy forward.
But you know, the economy is not a certificate you put on your wall and say; “Oh, how clever are we as a nation, we're in 28 years of growth”.
That's wonderful, but what does it mean?
Why do we do it?
And why do I talk about the economy so often as I move around the country?
Because this is the best country in the world to live, but our future depends on ensuring that we keep our economy strong.
Why?
That’s what pays for hospitals, that’s what pays for Medicare.
That's what pays for affordable medicines.
That's what pays for the City Deal.
That's what pays the way and guarantees the funding, not higher taxes.
Higher taxes just slow the economy down.
Over the last six months or so I've taken up, to keep myself somewhat fit, swimming laps.
Now if anyone said to me; “You know, you’d go a lot faster if you put a weight belt on,” what do you think I’d say to them?
It's hard enough.
But that's what $200 billion of higher taxes will do to our economy.
It will slow us down.
It'll slow you down.
Whether it's the policies which say, to pay someone else more, you've got to sack someone else to do it - which is the policy of the Labor Party.
I don't think any Australian wants to get paid more in this country, as a result of their workmate having to get sacked.
I don't think that's a fair policy.
I don't think that's an Australian policy.
I think that is a scorched earth policy, not seeing the vision of the growth of the Australian economy.
That we can run one as has been run here in northern Tasmania, which lifts everybody up.
Where everybody can do better and that's why our tax policies are designed to ensure everybody can keep more of what they earn.
That we don't try and penalize some, push some down, in order to pretend to be raising others up.
Our values, our beliefs are all about seeing the entire economy go forward.
That's why it's great to be here.
It's great to be here and seeing the optimism and the positivity here in northern Tasmania.
It's exciting, it's energizing and that's what we want to see continue.
We can't turn back now.
It has taken us 12 years to get the economy back to where it was when John Howard and Peter Costello left office and Labor took over.
It has taken us 12 years.
You vote Labor once, you pay for it for a decade.
It's taken us more than 10 years to get employment as a share of the working age population in this country back and above the levels that were achieved back in 2007.
It's taken us over 10 years to achieve that.
We are on the right track and I can tell you, here in northern Tasmania you’re on the right track.
So we want to keep that going.
Why?
Because I want to invest in health services around this country.
I want to improve the lives of Tasmanians, Australians all, as they seek and get access to the services that a modern, sophisticated, generous society can provide.
Already, funding for Tasmanian public hospitals is up from $425 million a year, to $525 million.
There are record bulk-billing rates in Tasmania and here in Bass alone, since we came to office, bulk-billing rates are up here, the number of people receiving bulk-billing services has increased by 4.
8 per cent, almost 5 per cent.
73 per cent bulk-billed services here in the electorate of Bass.
404,654 bulk-billed services here in Bass.
That 76,748 more than when we came to office.
Not surprising, we’ve increased the funding for Medicare by 27 per cent since we came to Government.
I remember at the last election - particularly here in Tasmania - the Labor Party lied to the people of Tasmania.
They said we're going to sell Medicare.
It was a preposterous lie.
We strengthened it.
Under our Government, because of a strong economy and strong Budget management, with a Budget that goes back into surplus next year for the first time in 12 years - that's how you strengthen Medicare.
You don't raise taxes.
You invest in it and you run a strong economy.
Today, I'm pleased to announce that we're investing $91.
9 million to strengthen the health system here in Tasmania.
That includes $20 million for hospital services and infrastructure, cutting the elective surgery waiting lists.
An extra 6,000 surgeries and endoscopies to be provided here in Tasmania.
$34.
7 million for elective surgery and TazReach primary care support to reduce the time Tasmanian patients wait for elective surgery and support Tasmanians in rural and regional locations, particularly with outreach specialist services, through the TazReach program.
Upgrades to the birthing suite at Launceston Hospital – yes, population growth by more homegrown Tasmanians and more Tasmanians coming home - and more Australians from the mainland deciding to make Tasmania their home.
I met a young couple last night over at Sporties and they were telling me they’re working in the civil construction industry here in Launceston.
They moved here from Melbourne.
So Tasmanians are coming home.
Tasmanians are staying and more Australians are choosing to become Tasmanians.
I think that's exciting.
A second linear accelerator machine at Burnie for breast cancer patients which will save them $1500 for MRIs and PET scans.
$4.
4 million for cancer infrastructure, more MRI units with Medicare-subsidized scans for cancer, stroke and heart conditions.
Greg and I will talk more about this today when we make these announcements again.
Two extra diagnostic mammography units, one in Hobart and one here in Launceston.
No more waiting to know whether it's benign, or cancerous.
We've all sat through I suspect, either with a friend or a family member or God forbid even yourself and you've been waiting, and you've been waiting, and it's soul destroying.
This investment will remove that wait, that's the practical side of this.
Yes it's money and yes it's machines, but what are we investing in?
Removing that anxiety and heartache that comes from not getting access to those services as quickly as you need.
$24 million dollars for mental health here in Tasmania and that includes an adult mental health center here in Launceston.
A centre to treat eating disorders - I know of no parent for whom eating disorders is not one of their worst nightmares, it scares the hell out of me as a parent, scares the absolute hell out of me.
We all have to keep investing in the health of our children and the mental health and well-being of our children from the earliest of ages and that's why as proud that in this Budget $461 million - Greg and I are on our mission an absolute mission to tackle youth suicide and youth mental health challenges in this country - $461 million, the biggest package we've ever seen to combat youth suicide.
There's no community in this country that is not affected by this.
Whether it's up in Grafton with Dr Pat McGorry when not long after Greg became Health Minister there had been a youth suicide cluster.
Just that phrase.
Everyone in the community was at a loss and Greg and Dr McGorry - who I know well and Greg knows well - went up there and we put a Headspace in.
And there has not been, to our knowledge, a further case since that occurred.
So - 30 new Headspace centres are going in around the country, as a result of $461 million we're investing in youth mental health.
It’s going to make a big difference.
This is going to save young people's lives, young people's lives.
$7 million for drug and alcohol support, funding for a 10 bed facility in Burnie and an eight bed residential accommodation service in Circular Head.
$12.
4 million for Preventative Health Research at the University of Tasmania.
$92 million investing in the health care - and you know who made it happen?
You did, you did.
This is why I love small and family businesses; you love what you do.
You wouldn't do it if you didn't want to.
You'd go work for someone else.
You know, you take a wage but when you run a small business you know, you don't take a wage.
You get paid last and you pay your employees first and what's left over, is what's there for you and your family.
So you do it because you love it.
There are so many small family businesses that are tremendously successful and we celebrate them, as we should.
But when I talk to small family businesses and I ask them about their businesses and what they love about it, they often talk to me about the weddings that being to for their staff.
Or the christenings, or the way they talk about that young apprentice they took on and what they're doing now, running their own show as a carpenter or something like that.
It's the role that the business, particularly in regional communities, has in enriching the life of their fellow Australians.
Your success is the country's success.
The Government is a shareholder in your business, I don’t know if you think about it like that.
The better you do, the better we do.
That's why we want you to succeed.
That's why we've cut small and family business taxes.
That's why we're cutting taxes for all Australians, because we want Australians to keep more of what they earn.
Because the better they do, the better we all do.
And when that happens I can come here and say; “$92 million dollars for health services here in Tasmania”.
You've made this happen, we are the Government, we're channeling it we're setting the right priorities.
We're getting the direction right and creating the atmosphere for you succeed and the environment for you to succeed.
But the reason we can do this, is because of the strong economy you’re building and that we are building together.
That's what is at stake at this next election.
You will not build a stronger economy with higher taxes.
You will not build a stronger economy, where the harder you work, the more you get punished with tax.
You will not build a stronger economy if you try to tie up businesses with reckless emissions targets, things that drive up the price of everything.
You won't get a stronger economy from that and that means you won't get stronger health services.
Our health plan works across four key areas; access to these medical services - and I've talked about bulk-billing and regional access in the plan today - medicines and treatments, our Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, the physical and mental health of our country.
Affordable medicines is one of our greatest achievements I think, as a Government, with over 2,000 affordable medicines listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme which take courses of treatment – so $9 billion for example, on 130 specific cancer drugs - courses that cost hundreds of thousands and I have met the sufferers who have paid that to get access to these medicines - who now can access it for $40.
50 or $6.
50 for a concession holder.
I think there's no greater statement of the strength of our community, our society, our nation and our economy, when we can say we can do that.
Our Government has continued to invest and list all of the medicines recommended and that didn't happen under the previous government.
Why?
Because they ran out of money.
If you can't manage your Budget you can't manage the health system, as Greg so often says.
You can have all the virtue and good intentions you like, but if the wallet is empty you can't pay for anything.
That's why economic management and budget management is so critical.
You get that.
You’re business people and that's how we run the Budget; like you would.
Making sure you get your costs under control.
Making sure your revenue streams are sustainable.
You can't have sustainable revenue streams as a Government, if you're taxing the economy out of existence.
That's why we’ve kept taxes under control as much as we’ve kept expenditure under control.
In hospitals will increase the investment, in research and capability the work of the Medical Research Future Fund is changing the landscape for health care and treatment in this country.
It’s something that has been another great achievement $20 billion dollars in that fund $500 million over 10 years for the Australian Genomic mission.
$164 million in the Budget for clinical trials for rare cancers, rare disease and unmet needs.
$80 million where I was with Greg at the Peter MacCallum Centre of Excellence on cellular immunotherapy.
When I was there with Greg, I met a couple from Tassie, getting treatment right there in that facility.
It's a facility for all Australians.
$100 million dollars for the comprehensive Children's Cancer Centre in Sydney and a ten year medical research plan which backs Australia's 23,000 medical researchers, creating jobs and ensuring we can quickly take life-saving discoveries from the laboratory to the hospital,, to your family to save their lives, to improve the quality of their lives, to change their lives.
It is all about a strong economy at the end of the day.
That’s not a message from an economist, it's a message from patients who need health care.
The best script I can write as Prime Minister to secure the health care of Australians, is a budget surplus.
The best script that I can write as Prime Minister to guarantee life-saving medicines are available and affordable, is to continue to back you and small and family businesses all around the country, so our economy continues to support these incredibly important services that all Australians rely on.
So when the Labor Party or commentators say; “this election is about health”, sure, sure, yeah it is, but only a stronger economy is going to deliver that.
That's really what is at the heart of what I'm trying to say today.
We have the plans to continue to invest in the health care of Tasmanians, in the north of Tasmania and right across the country, in remote Indigenous communities, to our biggest cities.
The way we will do that is not through higher taxes as Josh said in the Budget fairly regularly.
Yeah he did, because our plan is to grow the economy without increasing taxes, because we know by increasing taxes you slow the economy down and that puts everything else at risk.
So here in northern Tasmania we're positive, we're excited.
It's not just of the Battery of the Nation that will charge up the rest of the country coming out of Tasmania, it's the entrepreneurial spirit and go-getting nature of Tasmanians, which they're really starting to see.
The rest of Australia is starting to notice it, whether it's in the performance of the housing market or performance of the economy, the great leadership that Will has been providing right here in Tasmania and we're a great partnership.
We've come so far.
You've come so far.
Now is not the time to turn back.
Now is the time to keep on with that plan that will continue to deliver the economy that you rely on, your community relies on, the country relies on.
Last August as Treasurer I spoke about our ‘fair go economy’.
I had planned to build on that theme today.
But the acts of terrorism last Friday have caused me to pause, to reflect, and to take the opportunity today to have a different conversation.
The Jewish people know what it’s like to be the victim of hate-speech, to be politically objectified.
They know the evil of race based ideology – the banality of terrorism and that the real enemy is always hatred and intolerance.
It is every citizens responsibility to break cycles of hate whenever and wherever we may see them.
I know the people in this room, and across Australia, have been horrified, devastated and ashamed about what happened in Christchurch, the attack on innocence in a place of worship - a terrorist atrocity committed by an Australian.
New Zealand is family, or whanau as Maori say.
Like family, we occasionally squabble, often tease, but always when threatened or attacked, we’ve got each other’s back.
And like family, the Kiwis are the people most like us in the world.
Even our flags speak of two nations similar but different, with intertwined histories, and futures that will always be shared.
We don’t say it enough: We are proud of our New Zealand cousins.
We love them.
Many years ago, our Queen, Her Majesty, said this about the Kiwi character.
New Zealand is characterised by “a sense of fairness and justice; a willingness to be outward-looking; and a natural compassion for others”.
So true.
A country of good people with a good heart.
Here, at home, we express our solidarity.
The Silver Fern shone on our Opera House.
The New Zealand flag flew above our Government House.
Across our country, our own Southern Cross dipped in respect, above our Parliament, atop our harbour bridge.
The Australian Muslim community has offered counsellors and is providing support to the New Zealand Muslim community – along with, I’m sure support from Muslims from countries around the world.
In Christian churches and Jewish synagogues there have been prayers for our Muslim brothers and sisters, bound by our Abrahamic faiths.
And thousands of Australians, of other faiths or no faith have reached across ‘the ditch’ with love, support and prayers.
Naturally, at a government level we are providing New Zealand with every assistance they require and standing up every necessary capability here in Australia to keep our own people safe.
New Zealand has world class police, medical and forensic staff and any assistance we are providing reflects simply the scale of these atrocities.
Rightly, this is a time for grief and it is a time for reflection.
In time, we will have a better idea of how this all happened.
How did this terrorist stay in the shadows, hiding among us in plain sight?
Where and how did his vile radicalisation take place?
During the last three years the terrorist spent just 45 days in Australia, travelling extensively overseas.
What laws need to change, what additional actions and precautions need to be taken?
Answers to those questions will come with time, and must.
Such questions are practical and necessary and can be posed and considered without the need for defensiveness or blame.
About a month ago, I spoke at the National Press Club about keeping Australians safe.
I spoke about what we are doing in terms of keeping Australians secure: more resources for police and intelligence services; more powers; the 12 tranches of anti-terrorism legislation; our strong border protection policies and our efforts tackling illegal narcotics like ICE; and funding extensive anti-domestic violence programs.
As part of our efforts keeping Australian safe, we have  a Safer Communities fund that has provided since 2016 $70 million in local community safety grants for schools, pre-schools, community organisations and local councils.
For some months now we have been working to expand this programme.
Today, I am announcing an acceleration and extension of that program, to provide $55 million in community safety grants - and for priority to be given to religious schools, places of religious worship and religious assembly.
The grants from $50,000 to $1.
5 million will provide for safety enhancements such as CCTV cameras, lighting, fencing, bollards, alarms, security systems and public address systems.
When I say I believe in religious freedom - and I am one of its staunchest defenders in Parliament - I know it starts with the right to worship and meet safely without fear.
This must be the first freedom we secure, to practice their faith in safety, others should follow.
Religious freedom is not just an inalienable right as free citizens.
It is important to the very cohesion of our society.
It is for many Australians impossible to separate their faith from their culture.
Now this announcement, along with everything else we have announced over recent years is ‘the how’ of keeping people safe – and we’ll keep investing and working on ‘the how’, because the greatest responsibility of any government is to keep Australians safe.
But today, I want to engage in a broader reflection – about how we see difference in our world, and how we manage it.
I said here in Melbourne last Tuesday, you can’t have a strong economy unless you are secure – and you can’t be truly secure if your social fabric is not strong.
The bonds between us all matter.
The rainforests in North Queensland are older than the Amazon.
Every part of this ecosystem reinforces itself.
It doesn’t grow apart, it grows together.
And so it is with countries and their peoples.
But these ties that bind us are under new pressures and are at risk of breaking.
This is not just happening in Australia – it’s happening in many countries around the world.
If we allow a culture of ‘us and them’, of tribalism, to take hold; if we surrender an individual to be defined not by their own unique worth and contribution but by the tribe they are assigned to, if we yield to the compulsion to pick sides rather than happy coexistence, we will lose what makes diversity work in Australia.
As debate becomes more fierce, the retreat to tribalism is increasingly taking over, and for some, extremism takes hold.
Reading only news that we agree with, interacting with people only we agree with, and having less understanding and grace towards others that we do not even know, making the worst possible assumptions about them and their motives, simply because we disagree with them.
This is true of the left and the right.
And even more so from those shouting from the fringes to a mainstream of quiet Australians that just want to get on with their lives.
Hate, blame and contempt are the staples of tribalism, it is consuming modern debate, egged on by an appetite for conflict as entertainment, not so different from the primitive appetites of the colosseum days, with a similar corrosive impact on the fabric of our society.
Contempt, is defined by the philosophers as “the unsullied conviction of the worthlessness of another”.
The worthlessness of another!
That is where mindless tribalism takes us.
It ends in the worst of places.
Last week it ended the lives of 50 fellow human beings, including children praying in Christchurch.
I agree with the American author, Arthur Brooks who has recently said, “What we need is not to disagree less, but to disagree better.
”
Not disagreeing less, but disagreeing better.
When we disagree better: we engage with respect, rather than questioning each other’s integrity and morality.
Tribalists constantly seek to appropriate legitimate policy issues and public concerns as a tool to promote their separatist and exclusive agendas.
To contort and misrepresent disagreement in the worst possible terms.
Immigration is a classic example.
A discussion about the level of annual migrant intake is not a debate about the value or otherwise of multiculturalism or the economic contribution of migration.
It must not be appropriated as a proxy debate for racial, religious or ethnic sectarianism.
Just because Australians are frustrated about traffic jams and population pressures encroaching on their quality of life, especially in this city, does not mean they are anti-migrant or racist.
To the contrary.
Australians respect the positive contribution that migration has made to our country.
For the overwhelming majority of Australians concerned about this issue, this is not and never would be their  motivation.
But that is how the tribalists seek to confect it, from both sides.
The worst example being the despicable appropriation of concerns about immigration as a justification for a terrorist atrocity.
Such views have rightly been denounced.
But equally, so to must the imputation that the motivation for supporting moderated immigration levels is racial hatred.
We cannot allow such legitimate policy debates to be hijacked like this.
Managing our population growth is a practical policy challenge that needs answers.
Answers I will continue to  outline as we approach the next election, from our congestion busting road and rail investments to ensuring we frame our migration programme to meet the needs of our economy, the capacity of our cities and the opportunities and needs in our regions.
We see a similar trend in relation to the debate on border protection policies.
For me this has always been about ensuring the integrity of our borders because I believe this is essential to a successful immigration programme, a view shared by many migrant communities in Australia, and preventing the horrific impact of the people smugglers trade.
I have never sought to question the compassionate motives of those who hold different views about the best way to manage Australia’s borders.
I have rarely had this courtesy extended by those who who hold contrary views to my own.
As Australians we need to stand against the militant and lazy group think that distorts our public debate, stand up for our individualism and seek to think better of each other.
Part of disagreeing better, is to appreciate our differences - or to understand, in the words of Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, “the dignity of difference”.
Extremism, or in a different form fundamentalism, is simply an inability to tolerate difference.
It is to feel threatened by others who do not conform to your world view.
And it takes many forms: religious extremism, secular extremism, and political extremism.
Every terrorist attack has at its core a hatred of difference and a hatred about the choices and lives of others.
Prime Minister Ardern grasped the essence of this on Friday – when she said of the New Zealand Muslim community, “they are us”.
This was reflected in my own remarks, an attack one faith is an attack on all.
An attack on innocence and peace is an attack on us all who love peace and innocence.
This is a powerful idea.
No them but us.
Tribalists always want to separate us, divide us, set one Australian against another.
As Prime Minister I want to continue to bring Australians together, not set them against one another.
I want us to reject the thinking that one person’s gain is another’s loss.
This is a doctrine of scarcity that betrays our social and economic prosperity and creates an environment for conflict and division.
I want to remove the demarcation lines between Australians.
I see every Australian as an individual, not part of some tribal group to be traded off against another.
And I believe, not in a tribalism that divides, but in an us that unites.
So let me affirm today what us means:
Indigenous Australians are us.
Immigrant Australians from all nationalities and backgrounds, including Chinese, Lebanese, Greek, Indian, Turkish, Vietnamese, just to name a few,  are us.
Muslim Australians are us.
Christian Australians are us.
Jewish Australians are us.
Hindu Australians are us.
Atheist Australians are us.
LGBTIQ Australians are us.
Whoever you vote for - us.
Older Australians are us.
Young Australians are us.
Female Australians are us.
Male Australians are us.
Regional Australians are us.
From the bottom of Tasmania to the tip of Cape York, from Byron to Broome, all 25 million Australians are us.
We belong to each other.
We stand with each other.
We must love and respect each other more.
That’s what we must affirm today to fight the forces that will otherwise weaken our nation.
My friends, in a few weeks time, I will visit the Governor-General and ask for an election to be held.
That election will be hard fought.
In this election I see my challenge as not to convince anyone Australian to join my side, but to convince them that as a result of what we are putting forward, we are on theirs, as individuals, whoever they may be and whatever life’s circumstances they may face.
My case is for an even stronger Australia - prosperous, safe and united.
A strong economy that can deliver the guaranteed funding for the services that Australians rely on, without increasing taxes, that would harm our economy.
We face increased uncertainty in the global economy in the year ahead.
This has been true for many years now, and our Government has continued to protect and steward our economy, with records jobs growth, lower taxes, support for small and family businesses, building the infrastructure Australia needs to bust congestion and manage population growth, returning the budget to surplus and maintaining our AAA credit rating.
This strong economic management has enabled us to make more than 2000 life changing medicines affordable by listing on the PBS, deliver record levels of hospitals and schools funding and to achieve the highest level of bulk billing for Medicare in Australia’s history.
Now is not the time for economic experiments, or handing the economic wheel over to those who have been unable to demonstrate an ability to drive.
This will make Australia weaker in the decade ahead, and all Australians will pay for it.
As we saw following John Howard, vote Labor once and you pay for it for a decade.
Continued responsible management of our economy will enable us to continue on with our plans to keep Australians safe, with record investments to combat domestic violence, counter terrorism in all its forms, rebuild our defence forces and respond speedily to the natural disasters of flood, drought and fire.
And our fundamental belief that one Australian does not have to fail for another to succeed, of rejecting the politics of conflict and division, we can best continue to bring Australians together, to reinforce the social fabric so important to our economic success and security as a nation.
We will continue to engage in strengthening this social fabric – in finding a bigger place for ‘us’ and a smaller place for the idea of ‘them’.
I will finish with a Maori exhortation to us all in this difficult time, Kia Kaha - stay strong.
That is my plan for Australia
I want to come back to Josh in a sec, but first let me begin by also acknowledging our traditional owners the Boon Wurrung and Woiwurrung peoples of the Kulin Nation here in Melbourne.
Can I also particularly acknowledge the servicemen and women who are here with us today and any veterans today.
I simply say to you, thank you for your service.
There are few things that I have greater pride in than saying to an ex serviceman or woman or veteran around the country, to simply offer them appreciation for their services wherever they happen to be and I know those in this room certainly share that view, as many do and I’d say all Australians do around the country.
Can I start particularly by welcoming Michael McCormack the Deputy Prime Minister here today.
Is there anyone who knew better than Sir Robert Menzies the importance of a Coalition partnership to deliver good government to Australia?
No one knew that better than Sir Robert Menzies and in fact when he went to Albury and to other places when he would speak, he’d say that was the key to good government in Australia and the partnership that we have with our colleagues in what was then the Country Party, today is the National Party.
And can I tell you, the relationship I enjoy with Michael is a strong one, but importantly it’s one based on our shared values and our shared passion for our country and our absolute commitment to ensure that Bill Shorten never sets foot in the Prime Minister’s shoes in this country.
In the same way that Ming and Black Jack worked so well together over all of those years, I can tell you that ScoMo and Big Mac over here –
We’re doing exactly the same thing today.
It’s a strong bond and it’s a partnership that is important for our nation and for the things that we hold dear as Liberals.
To Josh, yes, you will get to deliver that surplus Josh and you deserve to, the way you’ve applied yourself as Treasurer, the way you’ve gone about the task.
I know what that task involves and I know that you’ll deliver in just under a month’s time, what will be the first time this country has seen a surplus Budget in a decade and more.
To all my other colleagues who are here, there are too many to mention so I won’t do that today.
But I do want to acknowledge all the tremendous work that you are doing as we prepare for what will be the battle of battles, that is the next election.
It will be just that, it will be just that.
I know it, I’ve known it from the day I stepped into this job just over six months ago.
I knew what was riding on it, I know what is at stake and I never take on a task that I don’t believe I can accomplish.
I’ve had experience in politics where there have been people telling me that; “This can’t be achieved and that can’t be achieved.
” I go quietly about the business and on the other side, I remind them of what they’ve said before.
To Ron Wilson and Members of the Sir Robert Menzies Lecture Trust thank you very much for what is a very humbling invitation to come and to join you all here today as Prime Minister, to deliver what is an important address in the history of our movement and in the life of our movement.
Feel free to book me in for next year so I can match John’s two in a row.
I’m sorry John can’t be here because I suppose between Josh and I we bring together the finest of the Menzies and Howard traditions as a partnership as we look to our heroes in the Party.
It’s great to have Menzies family members represented here today and one of the finest and loveliest moments I’ve had as a Prime Minister is one day when I was with my daughter Abbey at the Federal Secretariat in Canberra, Heather was there and they got to meet each other.
They told wonderful stories to each other about her time when she was the Prime Minister’s daughter the first time around, because they were about the same age at that time.
They talked about the room they stayed in and things like that, it was a beautiful moment for a father and daughters bring tremendous joy to fathers.
My daughter’s name is Abigail which mean’s ‘father’s joy’ and that’s certainly the case, as is Lily.
To Gerard, thank you very much for hosting us here at EY today.
You’re a great partner in these events and we thank you for it.
To Nick Cater of course and the Menzies Research Centre, I congratulate you on your announcement today about the establishment of the Robert Menzies Institute located at Melbourne University.
That’s a tremendous step forward and well done.
So thank you again for the invitation to give this lecture during what is the 75th anniversary of the founding of the Liberal Party and the 70th Anniversary of Sir Robert Menzies’ historic win in 1949.
I intend to repeat that in the true Liberal tradition.
In the history of nations there are always giants.
They are the handful of men and women who through their courage, their perseverance, their intellect, passion and will, they change the course of their nation.
In the life of Australia, Sir Robert Gordon Menzies certainly fits that bill.
He is one of our greatest, if not our greatest giant when it comes to the history of modern Australia.
For those interested in records; thirty years on the front bench.
Almost twenty five years as a party leader.
Eighteen and a half years as Prime Minister of Australia.
These are records that will never be broken.
But for others and I suspect all of us here, myself included, the significance of Sir Robert is not the records he broke – because that’s not what it was about, I believe for him – it’s the Party he built, the movement he founded and the values he championed that we have inherited and now have the privilege to steward and I do, as the party leader today and as Prime Minister.
Menzies did not name the Party after himself, that’s for populists, that’s for those who don’t look out into the future.
Instead, he reached out and built a Party based on enduring truths; the truths of liberalism and liberal democracy that outlive any one individual or the fashion of any one time, truths that unite a rich breadth of thought across our community.
He understood, as Margaret Thatcher said in her Menzies Lecture almost forty years ago that; “Pragmatism is not enough”.
Unlike Labor, we are not the party of shallow deals, transacted by vested interests to favour some, in order to punish others.
That’s not how we roll, that’s not what we are about.
Our Party is based on the individual beliefs that guide the decisions that we make in our own lives, that we make in our own families and our communities.
Our values and our beliefs come from the ground up, they are proven in our own individual experience, they’re not appropriated from above.
They come from in here and then they come together with others.
Our foundation is the personal responsibility and unique worth of the individual, drawing meaning, purpose and strength for life, for our families and for our participation in the community.
Our families and the homes we live in are the scaffolding of our character and the values that will sustain our lives.
It’s why Menzies spoke of; “Homes material, homes human and homes spiritual”.
From this sure foundation, comes civic mindedness, mutual respect, personal responsibility and a people that understand that the most satisfying thing is to contribute in life, rather than take.
As my parents taught me, they said; “Scott, life is not about what you accumulate, it’s about what you contribute.
”
This is the wonderful, civilising tension that Sir Robert understood - that people need incentive, reward and opportunity to carve out their own path.
But equally, that nations are not just the sum of individual efforts, they are also the result of the ties that collect us all up together.
It is these ties that responsible political parties always seek to strengthen.
It’s why, Liberal and National Coalition Governments govern - in the words of John Howard - not for some of us, but for all of us.
Our nation is named after that very pact, known as the ‘common wealth’ of Australia.
A Commonwealth is a shared future, it’s a commitment to each other.
When individuals grow and prosper, we all benefit.
When one excels, we all cheer, because it lifts all of us.
We know that effort, work, drive, enthusiasm and risk-taking is the foundation for all human progress and when individuals face lifes’ trials, we support each other.
Because lending a hand is the foundation of what it means to be genuinely human.
We understand that a strong economy is the foundation by which we can provide Australians with the essential services they rely on and they need.
That the prosperity we are creating lifts all and we keep faith with each other and with future generations by focusing on this.
Under our Government, over 1.
2 million new jobs have been created in the last five and a half years.
These demonstrate the values that Sir Robert gifted to us.
The women’s workforce participation rate is at an all time high.
Women are in 712,500 jobs that they weren’t in when we came to Government, that’s how many jobs for women have been created under our Government.
That’s over 55 per cent of all the jobs created under the term of our Government.
Participation by Australians over the age of 65 is also at a record high.
Australians are living longer and healthier and this is also a positive sign reflecting a better view of ageing in our workplaces.
As we remember Menzies today, it’s worth recalling that when he retired at 71, he handed the reins to a man he called “young Harold” who was 57.
Seeing more older workers remain in the workforce, because they choose to, is a trend that will continue.
As well, young people - a lot younger than “young Harold” and me - are benefiting absolutely from this jobs growth.
Nothing brings me greater joy, previously as a Treasurer and now as Prime Minister, than seeing a young person get a job, because it transforms a life and indeed can transform a generation.
Last financial year, young people aged 15 to 24 filled more than 100,000 jobs in this country, which is the strongest level of youth jobs growth in Australia’s economic history.
Of all the things our Government has achieved, I can’t nominate one of greater importance than that.
Because we have the right settings on taxes, trade, skills, small business and infrastructure, we can confidently set a target based on our track record of performance, of delivering 1.
25 million new jobs over the next five years, by sticking to the economic plan that has delivered so handsomely for Australia over the last five and a half years.
“The strivers, the planners and the ambitious ones”; this is what Menzies described when he referred to the mums and dads, the small business people and workers that our country relies on.
That’s why we are against Labor’s taxes – higher taxes on your electricity, taxes on your property, taxes on your retirement and more taxes on your income.
Because it’s an attack on the true strength of Australia; ordinary Australians having a go, who should be able to keep more of what they earn.
A fair go for those who have a go, I’ve described it as.
We do understand these “strivers, planners and ambitious ones,” as Sir Robert described them, that they are standing beside millions of small businesses that are propelling Australia forward and providing these jobs and they’ll continue to under the policies of our Government.
But it’s at great risk under the polices of the alternative in Labor.
We are a great nation of entrepreneurs and may it always be.
Under this Government, 230,000 additional small businesses have been created.
In coming years, our country’s 3.
3 million small and medium businesses, employing around seven million people – that’s more than half the workforce in Australia - will benefit from tax cuts that we’ve introduced and have brought forward recently by five years.
Tens of thousands of Australian businesses export overseas and they are being strengthened by export agreements with countries such as China, Japan, Korea and the 10 other nations of the Trans Pacific Partnership.
As of last week, you can add Indonesia to that, with an export agreement signed by the Minsters for Trade both in Australia and Indonesia just last week.
A deal that Labor are threatening even as we speak, on their hit list for their abuse of power should they ever be elected to government.
Under this Government, the coverage of our trade agreements has increased from 26 per cent of our two-way trade, to nearly 70 per cent.
That is transformational.
That has taken place in only five and a half years.
With more jobs, more businesses and more trade, we are bringing the Budget back into balance.
We have maintained our AAA credit rating under extreme international pressure and we are providing much needed tax relief to Australian households - legislated - and Australian small businesses.
In addition to tax cuts for Australia’s small businesses, our Personal Tax Plan will see 94 per cent of taxpayers pay no more tax than 32.
5 cents in the dollar, by 2024/25.
We are abolishing an entire schedule in the tax system.
There are Australians who will enter a decade under this plan, who will never face bracket creep throughout their entire working life, because of our reform to the tax system.
Now, this is not a goal that Labor shares.
They have actually rejected it.
They have taken a $144 billion plan and they say they will reverse, that they will abolish, they will rescind this plan if they are elected to Government.
They’ll strip out $70 billion in tax relief to hard-working Australians.
They don’t share our views and that’s what they will do.
Unlike the false promises of higher taxes, the prosperity of a stronger economy is what guarantees the essential services that Australians rely on.
That’s what enabling us to keep our Commonwealth compact to look after each other.
Labor thinks higher taxes deliver hospitals.
No, it just slows your economy down so you can’t afford hospitals.
Under our plan for a stronger economy, we have the highest level of hospital funding in Australia’s history.
Under our Government, our pharmaceutical benefits scheme has listed 2,000 new life-changing medicines worth over $10 billion, helping countless Australians who are facing illnesses and sicknesses of almost every kind.
And it was under Labor that they didn’t list medicines, because their Budget couldn’t support it.
That is the cost of the alternative set of values which drives our opponents.
Bulk billing rates are at record levels and we’ve committed to a new hospitals agreement, providing around $30 billion in additional funding over five years.
Medicare has never been stronger than under this Government, quite contrary to the lies Labor told at the last election.
We’ve fully funded the National Disability Insurance Scheme, without an increase in the Medicare levy.
We’ve backed in the system because we know the NDIS is all about enabling people living with disabilities, for them to realise their potential.
We are keeping our compact with future generations of Australians with $37.
6 billion in additional funding for schools.
And we are supporting Australians suffering from drought and flood all around the country - I’ve met with them, I’ve walked with them and I’ve held them - with record funding and urgent action, most recently up in far north Queensland where the livestock industry has been almost literally washed away.
We are providing over $5.
7 billion – and I acknowledge Michael McCormack – from day 1, as a team, $5.
7 billion to help combat the unrelenting pressures of drought.
That includes the $5 billion drought future fund, which we passed through the House of Representatives - and the Labor Party, amazingly, voted against - for the formation of a future drought fund.
We have kept faith with what it means to be a Commonwealth, by reforming the GST distribution system that was corroding our federation, to ensure a fair go for all States and Territories.
We did what other governments hadn’t dared to do.
We got in there and we fixed it.
I have said many times in recent months that this Government will keep our economy strong, keep Australians safe and keep Australians together.
The strength of Australia is in our economy, it’s in our security and it’s in our cohesion as a society well.
Sir Robert understood this; the social fabric of a country matters.
It’s a foundation as much as our economy and our security.
It is real and we understand the role that schools, sporting clubs, environmental groups, service clubs and suburban churches play in strengthening the bonds between us all.
Keeping Australians together is about the values and beliefs we hold, together as a community.
Ensuring older Australians are treated with dignity and respect and can maintain their independence and choices in retirement, including accessing the care they need – which is why I initiated the Royal Commission into Aged Care soon after becoming Prime Minister.
Raiding their savings, the savings of retirees and pensioners, through Labor’s retirees tax, defiles these principles.
Keeping Australians together is also about listening to and encouraging young Australians.
Now, having a Budget under control and that won’t rack up debt in into the future, that means future generations are not saddled with maintaining our way of life, maintaining our services and dealing with our cost of living.
Keeping our intergenerational compact with a cleaner environment, meeting our responsible commitments – not the reckless targets of others - but the responsible commitments to reduce our carbon emissions by 2030, without denying future generations the economic opportunities we have enjoyed.
That’s really what Labor’s 45 per cent emissions target does; it steals the opportunities of future generations that we ourselves have enjoyed.
How is that fair?
That we have been able to enjoy our prosperity and opportunity in life, but they want to deny to future generations?
This is why we have responsible targets and we’re not drawn to extremes.
Our liberalism is about strengthening the bonds between all of us and in lifting all Australians, no matter their age, their gender, their religion, class or sexuality.
Our approach is not to pitch one Australian against another, to punish one in order to reward another.
We do not believe one Australian has to fail for another Australian to succeed.
This is a fundamental difference between the movement that Sir Robert Menzies started in the Liberal Party and our opponents in the Labor Party - that is the politics of envy, to see one Australian fail, so another can succeed.
Our Party, the Party that Sir Robert started, is the Party of aspiration, not the Party of envy.
Our Party understands that mums and dads who are investing in property are not rorting the system, but providing for their future out of their own hard work and effort.
Labor will deny them this opportunity at the next election if given the chance.
It’s another one of their envy taxes.
They aren’t wealthy these Australians who are doing this, they’ve paid their own way and their investments support the supply of much-needed rental accommodation without which rents – as the Treasurer, as Josh will tell you – will only rise.
As Liberals we see a champion in every Australian, regardless of their abilities and regardless of their life’s circumstances.
By contrast, Labor sees only victims and oppressors, ensnaring Australians in a prison of want and envy, unable to see their true potential and worth.
That’s why I say under our movement, which I know is shared in the National Party, we see a champion in very single Australian regardless of what age they are, whatever level of ability they are, whatever challenges they face.
There is a champion in every single Australian and it’s our job as custodians of the movement which Sir Robert started, to ensure those champions are realised.
Labor thrives on conflict, with policies designed to turn Australian against Australian.
Menzies called this the class war, a false war.
It’s why he warned us against those who focus on sectional interests, rather than national interests.
So we aren’t about turning retirees against pensioners; or setting parents of students at state schools against those at independent schools; or Catholic schools against other schools; or small businesses against large businesses, or people from one suburb against someone from another.
Unless it’s about AFL, same as the NRL I assume.
Or the city against the bush, which our great partnership with the Nationals demonstrates, that this is a common project.
The class war has no place in Australia Bill Shorten, no place whatsoever and we stand here to defy that thinking, as Menzies did.
It was not right in Menzies time and it is not right today.
To extend, as Labor seek to do – Margaret Thatcher had that great saying about socialists; eventually, their problem is they run out of other people’s money.
I’ll extend that; under this politics of envy, you run out of other people to blame.
That’s  what it means; Labor will run down this hole, they’ll want to blame anyone for people’s life circumstances.
Our tradition is different.
Our tradition begins with the personal responsibility of every single Australian.
That’s where you start and when you set Australian against Australian, as Labor propose, all you do is make our country weaker.
I’d like to finish today and I appreciate your patience, by sharing my experience during my most recent annual summer break which is a wonderful time I get to spend with Jenny and the girls.
We’ve been going down the south coast of New South Wales for many, many years to different places.
There we were, locals, holiday-makers staying at local caravan parks, small business people from western Sydney – we were staying at a house just outside of town - members of the local surf and fishing clubs were there, as well as the rural fire service.
There were professionals, kids, mums, retirees, pensioners.
You find yourself at these little village communities on the coast of New South Wales, as I know you do across Victoria.
There we all were, enjoying the flathead and chips at the Heads Hotel overlooking the wonderful Shoalhaven River, raising money for a whole bunch of charities and organisations.
All of those people, Sir Robert called the forgotten people, I call them quiet Australians.
You won’t find them among the angry, shouty voices on the fringes, pretending to speak for all Australians.
You won’t find them there, those shouty voices telling us all what we’re supposed to be angry and outraged about every single day.
They haven’t got time for that.
They’re too busy paying taxes, raising kids, helping with homework, running their businesses, going to work, paying power bills, caring for their parents, looking after their grandkids, putting out the soccer nets on a Saturday morning, doing their patrols for the local surf club or working at the roster at the RSF, or working at the school canteen, the list goes on.
That’s what they’re busy doing.
They haven’t got time for armbands and all the rest of it, trolling people on Twitter and all of that nonsense.
They’re too busy creating a very strong Australia.
And you know, while confronting their own challenges in life, those I met, that wonderful group of people, they all had their challenges, but they maintain a refreshing and positive outlook on life, thankful that whatever they’re facing, they know they are ahead because they’re facing it as an Australian in Australia, which is what gives them the advantage.
As I have travelled this country, not just in my role as Prime Minister but as I have in other roles, I have listened to and I’ve heard the stories of quiet Australians all around this country.
Here’s what they’ve been telling me.
They say; “We want secure jobs and to be treated fairly and with respect at work.
We want our economy to be strong.
We want our incomes to keep up with the cost of living and even better, allow us to get ahead.
But we know that money doesn’t just fall from the sky and governments can’t just produce money from nowhere for people’s wages.
They understand that the company they work for has to actually do well in order for them to do well.
That’s why they work so hard, they know someone has to pay for it.
“We get,” they say to me, “that we have to pay taxes, but you know, politicians should be keeping their spending under control and not waste money, so those taxes can be as low as possible.”
They say; “We want the services we rely on like Medicare and affordable medicines through the PBS taken care of, no excuses, full stop.
That’s your job.
They’re more than happy to pay for a welfare system.
Australians are generous, but they’re not mugs.
They know they need a system that looks after those who are less fortunate and they’re always quick to recognise those who are doing it tough.
But welfare should never be a free ride, there’s a mutual obligation.
There should rules and obligations at the end of the day, because they know the best form of welfare is a job.
They say; “We reckon small and family businesses and farmers deserve a fair go,” because they know how hard they work, the risk they take and the sacrifices they make.
“We want to take care of our environment” they say, “especially locally.”
That’s where they play and live with their families.
“So we’re sympathetic to the big global environmental challenges, because we owe that to our kids.
But we also know the need to get the balance right.
” So let’s just have a sensible plan and get on with it.
“But please, can we do it without being asked to pay higher and higher and higher taxes, or shell out unaffordable taxpayer funded subsidies for the privilege?”
“Of course we want our schools and hospitals to be well-funded.
That’s what the Government is supposed to do”, they say, and fair enough.
But they also say; “Surely we can do this without having to raise taxes all the time to do it, that just makes it harder on all of us.
Get the spending under control and make sure the economy is running well and we can have the schools we need.
”
“And we’ve been around long enough,” they say, “to know that it’s not only about the money in education.
Give me a good teacher for my kids over a new school hall any day of the week.
We want our kids to be safe and not get bullied at school and to spend time with them as a family as often as possible.
We just want to see a smile on their face.
” Gold.
That said, I’m a parent, Josh is a parent, we talk about this a fair bit – we really worry about the world our kids are going to live in.
It’s all much more complicated now.
Of course we worry about their education, the skills they need and jobs that will be there for them, but we have all know kids and families who haven’t been able to cope - eating disorders, depression and the tragic and devastating impact this has on families - it scares the hell out of us.
“And we have nothing at all,” they say, “against migrants.
We understand that migrants helped build this country.
Seriously, just because we are frustrated with traffic jams or crowded trains, does not mean we want to shut the place down or insult our neighbours.
Just get the migration settings right,” they say, “make sure we build the houses and roads we need and get migrants into jobs and not onto welfare.
”
Sounds like a plan.
That done, how good is it in Australia, that we all get along as well as we do?
With so many people from so many different backgrounds, starting with our Indigenous Australians who were here first and we deeply respect.
“And we want to be kept safe.
Whether it’s our kids at school or predators online, women and older Australians from the cowards who abuse them, or when we’re out and about at the beach, the local park or mall with our families, to be kept safe from terrorists.
This is the Government’s most important job.
“We expect all those we ask to do the job of protecting us, our police and our defence forces, to get the resources they need and the respect they deserve.”
That includes our veterans.
Thank you for your service.
“We know,” they say, “that Australia is not perfect.
But we’d rather be here than anywhere else in  the world.
Sure, there are things we could have done better,” we are an honest people, “but we’d rather be here than anywhere else in the world.
There are things we must do better in the future, but there is no place like Australia and we want to keep it that way.
”
That’s what they’ve told me.
That’s what I believe, that’s what my team believes.
I said it in my maiden speech to Parliament eleven years ago:
“My vision for Australia is for a nation that is strong, prosperous and generous.
Strong in our values and our freedoms, strong in our family and community life, strong in our sense of nationhood and in the institutions that protect and preserve our democracy.
Prosperous in our enterprise and the careful stewardship of our opportunities, our natural environment and our resources.
And above all, generous in spirit, to share our good fortune with others, both at home and overseas, out of a compassionate heart and a desire for justice.
” I think Sir Robert would have approved of those words.
There will be a clear choice at this election, between aspiration and envy.
Between a stronger economy with lower taxes under our Government, or a weaker one with higher taxes under Bill Shorten and Labor.
A safer Australia under the Coalition, or a nation with weak borders under Bill Shorten and Labor.
A Party that understands that the strength of our country is best found in a united people, or a Labor Party under Bill Shorten that thrives on conflict and division, setting Australians against each other.
It’s a choice between a stronger Australia and a weaker Australia.
Our Government has the record and the plans to keep our economy growing, to keep Australians secure, to keep Australians together.
To keep Australia strong, staying true to our Menzian tradition.
This year’s Summit has, rightly, put trust at the centre of discussions.
Trust is the currency of a strong and prosperous economy.
We all have a stake in ensuring high public trust in our economic institutions and it’s no secret that big business, in particular, finds itself under unprecedented scrutiny.
The need to restore trust with customers, employees, the suppliers, the wider community is preoccupying boardrooms all across Australia.
As former Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper has written, high trust societies are richer, they’re happier, not least because trust enables efficient trade and commerce by allowing markets to function better and I think Stephen hit that right on the head when he said that.
On the other hand, low levels of trust generate pressure for more laws to regulate business activities and practices.
Trust is also the currency of politics, our public discourse and our policy decision-making.
The public, rightly, want to assess your record.
They want to assess your plans.
They want to know what you believe.
They want to know about what you seek to do in the future and your basis is or your claims to what you want to achieve.
And with the election approaching, Australians are beginning to focus on the choice that is in front of them.
They are beginning to focus on the records, the beliefs and the plans of the alternatives and what the means, importantly, for the economy that they will live in for the next decade.
I just want to pause on this point.
The next election, just like in 2007, will have a profound impact on the economy that Australians and families and small family businesses all around the country, it will impact on the economy they will live in.
The economy is not a theory, it’s something that affects every day of your life.
And just one term of a Labor Government can change the economic course and the economy each and every Australian will live in.
So, I welcome this scrutiny.
I think it’s time for that scrutiny.
Our Government, of course, has been under that scrutiny, as it should.
We are the Government.
But equally, as you go into an election, it’s important that the alternative plans are put under the same scrutiny and an understanding of what the impacts are for the decade ahead.
Labor can do a lot of damage.
They only need one term – only one term to really stuff it up.
We had two terms we’ve had to fix over the last six years and will have a profound effect on the next decade.
So, I welcome this scrutiny because the Coalition does have a strong record – a clear set of beliefs and I welcome it because the Coalition has a strong record, clear beliefs and a comprehensive plan to keep our economy strong, to keep Australians safe, and to continue to bring Australians together.
Scrutiny will be important more than ever this year because the stakes are higher than ever, as they always are in every election.
The contrast between the economic plan of the Coalition and Labor, as I said, is greater than it has been, I think, in 40 years – in a generation and more.
In the past, there was at least some degree of convergence on our economic direction as a country.
There was broad recognition about the modernisation of Australia’s economy resting on some key pillars – balanced budgets, competitive tax rates, low inflation, competition reform, enterprise bargaining, trade, opening it up, playing to our economic strengths including, can I stress, our traditional sectors in agriculture, in resources, in forestry, in mining.
Things that we don’t shy away from as a Government, that we understand their critical importance to the future of our economy.
We don’t think it’s a good thing when any of these sectors face markets with strong headwinds.
We don’t think that’s wonderful like the Labor Party does.
The dividend for Australian households from this economic modernisation has been substantial over the last 30 years.
Between 1960 and 1991, the Australian economy had six recessions.
Since 1991, Australia has enjoyed 27 years of uninterrupted economic growth – this is an extraordinary achievement.
It is arguably our most significant national achievement.
Half the Australians voting at this election – half, more than half – will never have experienced a recession during their working life.
They would never have had to face 18 per cent interest rates as they look for a mortgage, as they started a young family.
They would have never had been in a job market where there was a recession and looking for a job or trying to keep their job or looking for their wages.
It would have never happened.
More than half.
So, it’s important that we understand the economy is real and it has real implications for every single Australian and if you make the wrong calls, then that will punish Australians – every household, every business, each and every Australian.
Our real GDP has grown faster than any other advanced economy over that period.
Real GDP per capita has risen around 60 per cent since the early 1990s.
This compares with an average rise of 44 per cent in the US, Japan, Germany, Canada and the UK.
We’ve seen strong income growth across the income distribution sector.
In the context of globalisation and rapid technological change, this has been a singular achievement of what I have called ‘the modern Australian compact’.
A compact where the tax-transfer system reduces income inequality in Australia by more than 40 per cent, according to the official statistics of the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
A compact where the top 10 per cent of taxpayers pay almost half of personal income tax and where the bottom 10 per cent of households by income has achieved the highest income growth of any group since the Global Financial Crisis.
These are facts about our economy.
This is the truth about what is happening in our economy.
Not the myths, not the fairy tales, not the sentimental stories, but the hard facts of what is happening in our economy.
A compact where, according to Peter Whiteford from the Australian National University, social security benefits are targeted to the poor more than in any other high-income country today.
We have a good system, we do have a fair system and the facts back that up.
Over the past five and a half years and in the wake of a massive fall in mining investment, our Government has worked to sustain economic growth and secure a more diversified economy.
Let’s not forget that mining investment boom moved $80 billion out of the Australian economy.
To fall off the edge of the mining investment boom was a far more devastating factor impacting our Australian economy than the GFC.
And over that period of time, as it impacted incomes significantly, we have been able to ensure the economy has continued to grow and, importantly, we have maintained our AAA credit rating throughout that entire period at a time that it has been under greatest threat.
Speaking of trust, we pledged to create one million jobs five and a half years ago.
And we met that target before time, and we exceeded it.
More than 1.
2 million jobs have been created since 2013 in September.
Those jobs were created by businesses – by growing a stronger economy, businesses were able to grow and employ people.
In 2013 under Labor, unemployment was at 5.
7 per cent and going that way, north.
Today, it is 5 per cent, what some call the natural rate, and Australia’s jobs growth is now faster than in all G7 countries.
Our employment to population ratio for those aged 15 to 64, the working age population, is at a record 74.
2 per cent.
This is the best result since records began more than 40 years ago.
More people of working age are in work than in any other time in our history and as you can see in the chart, it’s been a long way back.
The female participation rate is at a record high.
So too is the participation rate for Australians aged over 65.
Welfare dependency is at the lowest level for three decades.
More people in work, less people on welfare – that’s what Coalition economic policy delivers.
Armed with this record, we have now set ourselves the goal of creating another 1.
25 million jobs over the next five years – that’s my jobs pledge to the Australian people.
And as you’ve just heard from the record, that is a claim, a pledge that we can make with some credibility.
At the same time, we have fixed the budget mess we inherited in 2013 and turned the corner on debt and maintained our AAA credit rating.
When we came to office, the budget had a deficit of $47 billion, or a 3 per cent share of the size of our economy.
In 2019-20, the Budget will finally return to surplus.
It hasn’t been an easy path, it has been a long road back to both fiscally consolidate while at the same time growing the economy when there had been [inaudible] of mining investment in the country.
These are the three things that had to be very carefully managed.
Our discipline, fiscally, will ensure these surpluses exceed 1 per cent of GDP over the medium term.
Real spending growth under our Government is at the lowest level for half a century – more than 50 years of any Government.
The hard work of getting the budget back into surplus though is only the start – we need to restore the balance sheet to where it was prior to the GFC so that we’re well placed to handle whatever the global economy throws at us in the future.
The buffers that were created by the Howard-Costello Government, not just the fiscal ones but the regulatory ones around our banking and financial system, were the critical factors that ensured that we were able to move through the GFC at the time.
And we need to get back into that space.
The Government is committed to eliminating net debt over the next decade and it will take that long and it will be quite a challenge to achieve.
This should now be the focus of our government’s fiscal management and it will be, paying down the debts of the past in order to grow the economy of tomorrow.
That is our intergenerational pledge – securing our future by keeping a lid on taxes and restraining expenditure to support confidence right across the economy and, in particular, amongst business.
Obviously, the finishing line of zero net debt is in the distance, but we need to stay the course.
In the same way, we will steadfastly work toward getting ourselves back in the balance.
We will work steadfastly to achieve this goal also.
So, this is not a time to experiment with economic management.
We has seen these experiments before under Labor.
They don’t end well for anybody.
Our proven track record on the economy is one that we’ve worked hard to achieve over the last five and a half years.
It honours the legacy of that which we’ve inherited from the Howard-Costello Government.
And we’ve maintained it, and we need to maintain this course.
Why?
Because, as we know, in recent months, the global economy has slowed, the risks have risen, at least compared with those we’ve faced in last 18 months or so.
Both the IMF and World Bank have lowered their global growth forecasts since our mid-year update.
The World Bank warns of darkening skies given global financing conditions have tightened, industrial production has moderated and the threat of protectionism remains high.
There are a few own goals out there in the global economy.
It warns that a simultaneous sharp slowdown in both the United States and China could have severe consequences for the global outlook and these are very obvious points.
Meanwhile, domestically, we have seen dwelling prices fall in our major capitals, a correction, with prices down 10.
4 per cent in Sydney and 9.
1 per cent in Melbourne.
The Reserve Bank Governor has been able to put these into context.
We have been able to achieve, I think, a soft lending to date in the housing market.
It was very over-heated, particularly in the Sydney and Melbourne markets, we know that and the measures and factors that have been in play have ensured that softening.
Had it been a hard landing, the implications for our economy we all understand would have been quite dire.
This only underlines why we can’t take Australia’s unbroken run of economic growth for granted.
Why we must do more to make our economy even stronger.
Why we have taken the hard work of rebuilding the Budget position.
Prudent fiscal management has allowed us to turn the Budget around while also I should stress investing record levels in defence, in health, in aged care, in education, all essential services that Australians rely on.
Our investments in all of these essential services – 2,000 affordable medicines on the PBS without increasing taxes.
The investments that I’ll announce today on domestic violence, important, bi-partisan commitments.
The only difference is, I’ll be announcing them without increased taxes.
Education funding at record levels, bulk billing for Medicare at record levels without increasing taxes.
I believe the way you control expenditure is actually controlling how much you tax.
We should only take from the Australian public, from their efforts, as much as we absolutely need to deliver those essential services that Australians rely on.
We shouldn’t have to take more in the event that you can’t manage all your other expenditure, which is what we see the Labor Party do.
Why are they going to tax you more?
Because they can’t manage the budget, so we’ll just tax them to cover up for all the other wasted expenditure.
That’s why we’re not raising taxes because we’ve kept a tension on the cord across all other levels of spending.
This has allowed us to unlock the largest infrastructure pipeline in terms of our economic management and what we’ve invested in.
Our $75 billion infrastructure plan is delivering much needed growth and nation-building capacity to all parts of Australia.
In many ways, it’s been filling the gap left by the retreat in mining investment.
That means less congested roads in our urban areas, so families can spend more time with each other, rather than get stuck in traffic.
The new Western Sydney International, I’m pleased to say the Nancy-Bird Walton Airport which we announced yesterday, is breaking a deadlock that has eluded governments for generations, decades upon decades upon decades.
Our $5 billion investment in Tulla Rail in Melbourne will transform and reshape that city.
A new Inland rail network for Eastern Australia will enhance the national freight network – creating jobs, reducing supply chain costs and connecting cities and regional Australia to markets faster, safer and more efficiently.
Snowy 2.
0, MarinusLink and Tasmania’s Battery of the Nation will not only create jobs where we need them but it will firm Australia’s record investment in renewable energy for the future so there won’t be dumping and shedding of renewable energy from the grid and will put downward pressure on electricity prices.
A big part of keeping Australians together is opening up new opportunities in regional Australia – through this better infrastructure, digital connectivity and the like.
Our Government is determined that Australia grows together, not apart, and the key to that is the strength of our economy.
All these investments are being fully funded as I said without an increase in taxes.
The Coalition has embedded Australia into the major economic engines of our region through transformational trade agreements with Japan, Korea, China, and 10 other nations of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and we now include Indonesia where Simon has just returned from inking that agreement.
Since the Coalition was elected, the coverage of our free trade agreements has increased from 26 per cent of our total two-way trade to 70 per cent.
26 per cent to 70 per cent – that is a massive opening up of our trade opportunities for small and family businesses in particular around Australia.
New export deals have given Australian exporters duty-free or preferential access to an extra 1.
8 billion customers in the world’s fastest and largest growing markets.
This is the most effective hedge an open trading economy like Australia can adopt against the new protectionist sentiment prevailing around the world.
And that I think is where Australia has a story, often going against the grain and ensuring that we’re opening up our opportunities where others might be seeking to close them off.
But there is more to do.
As I said, an uncertain global economic outlook means Australia’s economic fortunes will depend even more on the quality of our economic management.
We will continue to be an ambitious, pro-growth government, supporting individuals, families and businesses looking to get ahead and prosper.
We’re all for that.
We don’t think you have to pull some people down to raise other people up.
That’s not our view.
We believe a stronger economy can raise everybody up and I think that’s one of the key differences between our Government and the Labor Party and what they’re offering for the next election.
We will stay the course with policies that achieve this and we will ensure that those policies, our plan for a stronger economy, is in place.
Strong budgets so Governments live within their means.
Lower taxes, open trade, backing small businesses, promoting cooperative workplaces based on the rule of law, sensible climate policy alongside reliable, affordable energy supply.
Investing in infrastructure, investing in the skills that are necessary, backing all of our industries to be world-class – not just the shiny, bright new ones – they’re fantastic, love them, they’re great, love them, fantastic, Blockchain, high tech, all of them are doing so well – but so is resources, so is agriculture, so is forestry and the jobs that they produce all around the country.
It’s an incredibly important part of our economic future.
What we also won’t do is we won’t tax this economy beyond what it can bare.
I put in place as Treasurer a tax cap – 23.
9 per cent of the economy.
This is important.
That says that we believe if you go above that, you hold you economy back.
It’s a sheet anchor.
It holds every Australian back.
I urge you to look for a number when the budget comes out and when the Labor Party puts their figures forward.
What will be in the share of taxes of the economy under Labor?
I can tell you what is was for the last election – it was 25.
7 per cent.
That meant around $50 billion a year in more tax on the Australian economy – every year, another $50 billion.
And whether you’re paying that tax or not, you’re paying because of the impact it has on slowing the economy, the impact it has on slowing wage growth in a country.
They have a plan to put $200 billion of extra taxes on Australians and I really don’t think they understand the impact of that on the economy.
All the individual measures.
It doesn’t understand the power and virtue of aspiration in our society.
For our hardest aspiration is some other country, not Australia.
That’s what Labor’s Deputy Leader has said as much – that’s what Tanya Plibersek has said.
Labor under Bill Shorten sneers at those who want to get ahead and only promises them a higher tax burden.
If you work additional overtime to get ahead, Mr Shorten wants more from you, he wants higher taxes from you.
If you buy an investment property to secure your family’s economic future, which so many small and family business owners do, which so many people who live in regional parts of the country do – you know there’s more people who negatively gear investments and have investment properties in the electorate of Capricornia based on Rockhampton than there is in my own electorate of Cook in Sydney’s Sutherland Shire and St George.
More people in Rockhampton than in Cronulla.
Labor doesn’t get that.
They don’t understand the aspiration that would lead someone to make that decision and that sacrifice to invest in their future.
If you buy some shares for your retirement, again, Mr Shorten will have his hand in your pocket through higher capital gains taxes.
If you try to build a nest egg to pass on to your kids, again, he’ll have his hand in your pocket.
Mr Shorten even wants to ensure that our legislated tax cuts - $144 billion worth over the life of our tax plan will be cut in half.
Stripped away.
He will reverse the tax cuts that we have legislated from last year’s budget – reverse stages two and three of that plan that will stop over $70 billion worth of tax cuts.
Australians being able to keep their own money.
There are many other things that I could tell you about, but I know Phil Coorey’s interested in asking me a few questions.
But let me finish on two points.
I’ve already made the point about trade and the fact that the Labor Party is baulking again on this Indonesian Trade Agreement I think tells you that when it comes to the economy, their instincts just aren’t there.
It’s why the China Free Trade Agreement was never completed under the Labor Party.
They never took it forward.
They were never able to break through.
It’s why we are able to make progress on all of those agreements including the Indonesian one today, there’s a simple reason for that.
They’re not in control.
They will answer to their masters in the union at the end of the day.
That’s why we are looking at an economy under Labor which will see [inaudible] run their businesses, through to moving back to industry-wide bargaining which takes us back to the dark ages of workplace relations in this country.
As I move around the country and I walk in and out of small and family businesses and I ask myself why are they doing so well?
It’s because they have such a wonderful relationship between their staff and the managers and owners.
There’s a commonality of purpose that exists in these organisations.
They’re all working to the same end.
I don’t want to set Australians against each other.
I don’t want to set workers against bosses.
I don’t want to set one group of Australians who have had success in life against those who are aspiring to success in life.
I don’t want to set enterprise in this country against anything.
What I want to do is ensure that the economy, the economy that Australians live in, that they depend on, that their family’s services will rely on, whether it’s Medicare or hospitals or schools, I want to ensure, and will ensure, that it is the strongest it can possibly be in the circumstances that we are faced with.
So, it will be the most important election in decades.
It certainly will.
And there is a big choice to make and it’ll impact the next 10 years of your life.
Whether you’re a business, whether you’re raising a family, whether you’re in retirement or entering into retirement, whether you’re a young person coming out of university, I was one of those who entered the economy under Labor in the 1990s that went into recession.
I am one of those who does know what it’s like to live in an economy that is in recession and I did so as a young person coming out of university and others of my generation who knew what that was like.
Why parents struggled with interest rates that today’s generation can only imagine.
We can’t go back to that.
We must go forward and we have the plan to take Australia there.
What is most important to me as Prime Minister is that I seek to humbly do everyday things that make Australia even stronger than we are today, both now and in the future.
To protect what we already have as Australians, and to do everything we can to ensure that we are stronger so Australians can realise their opportunities for the future.
Keeping our economy strong through lower taxes, supporting small and medium sized family businesses, supporting infrastructure in our cities and our regions and all across our vast country, so I can guarantee the essential services Australians rely on.
That’s what the stronger economy’s for.
Medicare, hospitals, schools, affordable medicines, aged care, support for our veterans.
That’s why I am so focussed on achieving a stronger economy because that’s what realises those services.
Keeping Australians safe, whether it’s protecting our kids on-line from cyber bullying, keeping families safe from domestic violence, protecting Australians from the threat of terrorism, keeping our borders strong, and the institutions and frameworks that keep our borders strong, or defending our values and our freedoms at home and around the world through our Australian Defence Force.
And keeping Australians together, by ensuring we show respect for each other, for older Australians in residential aged care, removing needless- and preventing needless conflict and provocation in our workplaces – so employees and employers can work together for the good of themselves and their enterprise.
Listening to young Australians, in particular, who want to ensure our environment is protected for the future – and that we address climate change.
And respecting migrants who came to Australia, whether recently or many generations ago, because we are a successful multicultural society and because they believe we would respect religious freedoms.
Even stronger, that’s what I want Australia to be.
And to protect Australia from the things that would make us weaker - a weaker economy, weaker borders, weaker protections for our national security, weaker respect for the freedoms and the values that have made Australia the great country we are today.
A stronger Australia will always stand up for what we believe in.
And that’s why I have come here to address you today.
In my first major foreign policy speech in Australia as Prime Minister, I said that our foreign policy “defines what we believe about the world and our place in it”.
Foreign policy must speak of our character and our values.
What we stand for.
What we believe in and, if need be, what we’ll defend.
And I made this point: Those who see foreign relations through a narrow, transactional lens sell Australia short.
Australian is more than the sum of our deals.
We’re much bigger than that.
We are a principled and pragmatic people.
Clear about our beliefs yet realistic about the world that is around us.
We pursue an ambitious agenda in the Indo-Pacific, we are a regional power with global interests.
We have a responsibility to contribute to debates that shape our world, and the world does listen.
And to do so in a constructive and innovative fashion.
Always seeking to focus on the problem we are trying to solve.
So much of our prosperity and security is dependent on the world beyond our borders, we’ve always been an outward looking country.
Almost 40 years ago, Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, in the context of debates over the Middle East, the Cold War and Apartheid, explained why Australia should always participate in global debates.
He gave three reasons.
First, “Too many Australians have died in places remote from their home – in Europe, in the Middle East, in South-East Asia – for us to be unconcerned about the preservation of world peace.
Their sacrifice not only confers a right but imposes a duty on Australia to speak on these issues”.
Second, “the middle-ranking countries of the world should recognise they have a role to play.
It would not only be foolish,” he said, “but a political and moral failing to assume that nations such as Australia should be seen and not heard on the great issues” as he described them.
And third, “in a Western world characterised by a great deal of self-doubt and division, and by a degree of disillusionment which has not yet been wholly overcome, every contribution to clarifying issues and strengthening resolve is valuable”.
I agree.
In an age of renewed global uncertainty, Australia should seek to clarify issues and strengthen resolve based on the principles and the beliefs we hold dear.
To that end, today I want to update you on steps our Government is taking, as Liberals and Nationals, to add clarity to our voice on important issues, consistent with our values and our national interests.
The first issue I want to address is the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or JCPOA as it is known – otherwise known as the ‘Iran nuclear deal’.
Struck in 2015, the JCPOA resulted from a decade of negotiation.
It included the United States, China, France, Germany, Russia, the EU and the UK, as well as Iran as its signatories.
As we know, the United States withdrew from the agreement in May of this year.
Criticisms were made of the agreement including inadequate inspection and verification mechanisms and its narrow scope.
In response to this, on the 16th of October I announced a without prejudice review of the JCPOA.
We should take a look, we should assess these suggestions in light of concerns raised with me about its effectiveness including concerns raised here at home.
I asked my department to lead a team of experts drawn from across government to examine these and other criticisms and potential weaknesses.
The Review team consulted widely with Australia’s international partners in the US, Europe, Middle East and Asia and with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
I sought views from experts outside government, I also discussed the matter with a number of foreign leaders during the recent summit season.
The review team examined if the JCPOA is delivering what is intended.
The conclusion from the Review team is that, on balance, it is, and that’s welcome news.
Substantial restrictions on Iran’s nuclear activity remain in place.
The International Atomic Energy Agency has verified on 13 occasions that Iran’s actions remain in keeping with the deal’s limits.
The deal took Iran from the brink of having enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon to a place where the international community has daily oversight of its nuclear activities.
These are worthy achievements.
Iran is well-placed to expand its enrichment capacity rapidly if the deal were to break down.
So maintaining support for the JCPOA serves our interests in nuclear non-proliferation and in reinforcing the rules-based international system.
It is consistent with Australia’s position on other non-proliferation issues, for example, support for a negotiated deal on verifiable de-nuclearisation on the Korean peninsula.
And it serves our interest in encouraging rules-based approaches to resolving other issues of international concern, including the South China Sea.
But as the deal was only ever designed to cover nuclear issues, it’s not the full story and that’s where most of the frustration I think has been.
Our concerns about Iran relate not to what is in the agreement, but what’s not in the agreement.
The agreement does not address Iran’s destabilising activities in the Middle East and beyond.
It does not address Iran’s proliferation of ballistic missiles and technology, and activities undermining Israel’s security, and support for terrorist groups.
These activities are ones the global community must act on.
So today I am announcing that Australia will add to our already substantial support for international efforts, particularly in relation to Iran’s ballistic missile proliferation and Iran’s support for destabilising activity.
Australia continues to apply sanctions required under UNSC Resolution 2231 on nuclear and ballistic-missile related materials.
We will also continue to apply autonomous sanctions on the export of arms and related materials.
Working with our partners, and consistent with our obligations under UN Security Council resolutions, Australia will work to tighten the net on Iran’s missile proliferation networks and support for activities that are destabilising the region.
We will keep the option of additional autonomous sanctions under active review.
In the Financial Action Task Force – an international body tasked with combating counter-terrorism financing – we will support the imposition of countermeasures if Iran does not meet its commitments to address its anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing deficiencies.
Now turning to broader Middle East issues, I have also been concerned for some time about the ratcheting up of rhetoric and action aimed at isolating Israel.
We regard the biased and unfair targeting of Israel in the UN General Assembly in particular as deeply unhelpful to efforts to build peace and stability.
The UN General Assembly is now the place where Israel is bullied and where anti-Semitism is cloaked in language about human rights.
It is where Israel is regularly accused of what Rabbi Jonathan Sacks called the “five cardinal sins against human rights: racism, apartheid, crimes against humanity, ethnic cleansing and attempted genocide.
”
Think about it: a nation of immigrants; with a free press; parliamentary democracy; financially prosperous; the source of tremendous innovation in the world; and a refuge from persecution and genocide, is somehow the centre of cruelty in the world.
It's ridiculous.
It is intellectual fraud.
To the point where we seem to be heading closer, now, to the dispiriting decade of the 1970s when it comes to ritualistic denunciations of Israel, compromised and hypocritical global processes, a capacity to look the other way when it comes to terrorist organisations, and widespread fatigue in Western societies about the lack of progress.
Last year, there were 17 UN General Assembly resolutions critical of Israel.
This compared with a total of five for all other countries: Myanmar, the Syrian Arab Republic, Russia’s actions in Crimea and Ukraine; Iran and North Korea.
But 17 in relation to Israel.
This year, the UN Human Rights Council passed six motions condemning Israel, compared to a total of 14 across the rest of the world.
And last month, at my direction, Australia opposed six resolutions that attacked Israel in the UN General Assembly.
These included the ‘Jerusalem’ resolution, which contains biased and one-sided language attacking Israel and denies its historical connection to the city, and the ‘Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine’ resolution, which confers on the Palestinian Authority a status it does not have.
In the past, we had abstained on these resolutions.
Not anymore and not on my watch.
The standard you walk past is the standard you accept.
We all know that principle.
We won’t turn a blind eye to an anti-Semitic agenda masquerading as defence of human rights as a nation like Australia.
Last week, Australia supported a UN General Assembly resolution to condemn the egregious and ongoing violent acts of the terrorist organisation Hamas.
Hamas are violent extremists.
Terrorists who use the Israel-Palestinian conflict as an excuse to inflict terror.
They should have no friends at the UN.
The failure of the resolution to pass with the requisite majority was appalling.
Australia condemns Hamas’ activities in the strongest possible terms.
Why others failed to do so is evidence of the stalemate that has been reached where sticking with your side is blind to denouncing terrorism.
That’s how bad it’s got.
Now that is not to say that we are not ever critical of Israel.
Indeed, we will, if need be, openly rebuke a sincere friend, because friends should speak freely.
The Australian Government has expressed our strong concern over Israel’s land appropriations, demolitions and settlement activity.
I indeed have done that directly, Prime Minister to Prime Minister.
The settlements undermine peace – and contribute to the stalemate we now see.
But we make the point, the international community must move beyond ritual denunciations of Israel, to urge a return to negotiations towards a two-state solution.
If anything, the ritual denunciations are getting in the way of that progress.
Australia’s national interests are well served by our productive and increasingly diverse relationship with Israel.
Australia has always been one of Israel’s greatest friends and I intend for that to remain the case.
This is underpinned by our nation’s shared values, including our commitment to democracy and the rule of law.
Australia also benefits from a vigorous, creative Jewish community here in Australia who most recently welcomed not that long ago, along with all Australians, Prime Minister Netanyahu’s visit to Australia in February 2017, the first by a serving Israeli Prime Minister.
Modern Israel is a vibrant multicultural democracy with a strong economy and world-leading industrial, science and research capabilities.
Despite having the most powerful military in the region, Israelis live each day under existential threat.
Since 1948 Israel has fought numerous wars with their neighbours  and thousands of skirmishes which are a constant reminder of the daily threats they face.
My own visit to Israel many years ago and my interactions since have confirmed to me the future is not something Israelis take for granted.
It’s not something they can take for granted.
We should also not allow ourselves the indulgence of thinking otherwise for our great friend.
We should understand what they live with everyday.
Over the past two years alone, Australia and Israel have expanded cooperation in defence industry and aviation security.
It remains in our national interests to see Israel succeed as a liberal participatory democracy in the Middle East, and we regard it as imperative that Australia continues to strongly support its right to exist within secure and internationally recognised borders.
So this brings me to the Middle East peace process itself, including the status of Jerusalem.
Australia has a deep interest in seeing the emergence of a successful two-state solution.
Not just as a country seeking to strengthen resolve and clarify issues, but because of our history as well.
Last year, Australia commemorated the centenary of the Battle of Beersheba – a battle that is a proud part of Australia’s history.
We proudly recall that it was Australia that chaired the Committee that recommended to the UN General Assembly the creation of the state of Israel and then voted in favour of the partition of Mandate Palestine.
We are also proud to have been the first nation-state to vote to do so – and we did so because after the horrors of World War II, we wanted a refuge from man’s inhumanity to man.
We have turned up; we have played our part; we have done our share and we have paid the price through great sacrifice.
That’s what gives us a microphone on this topic.
As a practical demonstration of our ongoing commitment to peace in the Middle East, Australia has had military observers with the UN’s Truce Supervision Organisation since 1956.
Our contribution to UNTSO forms the fifth largest contingent of the entire operation and represents Australia’s longest commitment to any operation.
We continue to make substantial contributions to security and stability in the Middle East because it is in our interests to do so.
Around 1,200 ADF personnel in the Middle East are promoting regional security including as part of the Global anti-Daesh Coalition and, at the request of the Iraqi Government, training Iraqi security forces.
An Australian frigate patrols in the Gulf and Bab al Mandab Straits in support of regional security and freedom of navigation as part of a multinational naval force.
An Australian commands the Multinational Force and Observers in the Sinai overseeing the Camp David Peace Treaty between Egypt and Israel.
We have made a difference to thousands of refugees in the region through our humanitarian contribution of over $600 million to Syrian and Iraqi refugees since 2011.
And we continue donations to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East of $41 million in 2017-19.
In short, our credentials as a force for security and stability in the Middle East are beyond question.
Our commitment to supporting peace in the Middle East and for Israel to peacefully exist within secure and internationally recognised borders has always been accompanied by our commitment to the two state solution.
The UN Security Council has consistently endorsed a two-state solution, negotiated directly between Israel and the Palestinians, as the way in which ‘final status’ issues are to be resolved.
These ‘final status’ issues include the status of Jerusalem, the right of return of refugees, the status of Israeli settlements, and the provision of security and the future borders of a Palestinian state.
Successive UN Security Council resolutions have laid down expectations of UN member states on a range of related issues.
Since the Oslo Accords of the 1990s, public support for a two-state solution has now diminished inside both Israel and the Palestinian Territories.
Today, neither Israel nor the Palestinians view the other side really as a genuine partner for peace.
Though a two state solution remains the only viable way to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian dispute, the obstacles, we must admit, to achieving such a solution are becoming insurmountable.
We hope not.
The lapse of time and the failure to progress the negotiations I believe has changed the Israeli-Palestinian situation.
A rancid stalemate has emerged.
Slavish adherence to the conventional wisdom over decades appears only to be further entrenching this stalemate, providing a leave pass for continued inaction.
For everyone to just keeping doing what they’re doing, and looking the other way.
Don’t raise the issue, just keep doing what you’re doing.
Pious assertions about a commitment to a two-state solution strain credibility if we’re not prepared to question the conventional wisdom about how we believe this goal can be achieved.
Expecting a different outcome while continuing to do the same old thing is not the way, as particularly my Cabinet colleagues know, is not the way I deal with problems.
So, Australia acknowledges that Jerusalem’s ultimate status, including its borders and boundaries, is a final status issue to be resolved between the parties.
That’s uncontested.
We also know that as those issues are debated they are hotly contested in terms of their detail, and there are a range of strong views on these issues around the world.
We acknowledge there are other views, and remain committed to engaging positively with all of our partners and neighbours who have different views on this topic.
That’s OK.
And we are confident that others will respect the views we ourselves form when we do so in a respectful and honest way.
Fundamentally, it is the right of every country to determine its national capital.
That is why the Government I lead asked the question about the position we have long adopted in relation to Jerusalem, with respect to achieving a two state solution.
This very act of daring to ask that question drew the usual criticism.
We hadn’t made a decision, we said we want to take a look at this, there are some rather persuasive arguments out there.
As a country we should stop and look at this.
And our very decision to do that was decried, it was mocked even, including from our political opponents.
Now they either wittingly or otherwise wish to remain wedded to a status quo that is failing.
They’re in the ‘leave it well alone category’.
They can’t even tell us today whether they think we should ask the question, or even the answer we propose they can’t even agree with.
Well people will know where we stand.
So on the 16th of October in asking this question I announced a review of Australia’s policy on the status of Jerusalem.
I asked the departmental secretaries from Prime Minister and Cabinet, Foreign Affairs and Trade, Defence and Home Affairs to conduct the review.
They met with a broad range of Australian community representatives, including some eminent Australian policymakers: former heads of various agencies and departments whether in Defence, Foreign Affairs or Prime Minister and Cabinet; they consulted Australia’s partners and allies overseas, including those most closely involved in the Middle East peace process.
I did similarly as I went through a range of bilaterals over the last month or so.
The starting point for their deliberation was Australia’s absolute commitment to a two-state solution, these are the guard rails, with a secure Israel and future Palestinian state living side-by-side in peace and security within internationally recognised borders.
I also required that their deliberations respect Australia’s obligations under international law and UN Security Council resolutions – two things that are fundamental, I think, to Australia’s interests in a rules-based order.
You can’t look at these things in isolation.
Our foreign policy is guided by our fundamental interest in ensuring that internationally agreed rules continue to safeguard our security and prosperity.
We don’t get to pick and choose.
In the United Nations and G20 we have promoted the benefits of a rules based order and in holding states to account.
We have imposed sanctions on Russia in response to its violation of Ukraine’s territorial sovereignty.
We have called on states to comply with Security Council Resolutions on a range of matters, including the downing of MH17, North Korea’s weapons programme and the Syrian conflict.
Accordingly, respect for UN Security Council resolutions is a relevant factor for Australia that we can’t put to one side as we consider our position on these issues.
Now, Australia is subject to UN Security Council resolutions that apply to the Jerusalem issue, including Resolutions 478 and 2334.
The review team made recommendations after they’d completed their considerations to the National Security Committee earlier this week, with the resolution of the NSC then confirmed by Cabinet the following day.
Since then the Government has engaged in briefings with our neighbours and allies to outline Australia’s new position.
The Government has resolved that Australia’s position is now as follows: Australia now recognises West Jerusalem, being the seat of the Knesset and many of the institutions of government, is the capital of Israel.
West Jerusalem is the capital of Israel.
And we look forward to moving our Embassy to West Jerusalem when practical, in support of, and after final status determination.
We have decided to start the work though now to identify a suitable site for an Australian embassy in West Jerusalem.
Out of respect for the clearly communicated preference of the Israeli Government for countries to not establish consulates or honorary consular offices in West Jerusalem, the Australian Government will establish a Trade and Defence Office in West Jerusalem.
With deepening defence industry ties and Australia-Israel trade now running at over $1.
3 billion per year, this will help continue to build our strong bilateral relationship.
Furthermore, recognising our commitment to a two state solution, the Australian Government has also resolved to acknowledge the aspirations of the Palestinian people for a future state with its capital in East Jerusalem.
Australia believes this position respects both our commitment to a two-state solution and longstanding respect for relevant UN Security Council resolutions.
It’s a balanced view, it’s a measured view, it’s a well considered view.
It reinforces our clear view that the status of Jerusalem can only be resolved through direct negotiations between the parties consistent with relevant Security Council resolutions.
All of our actions, from our efforts in the Pacific to our peacekeeping forces and our presence in the Middle East, are reflections of our commitment to an international order that encourages freedom, peace and prosperity.
So in conclusion, I’m about hope for better.
I’m optimistic by nature and by spirit.
All of our actions, from our efforts in the Pacific – and I particularly want to commend Marise Payne and Christopher Pyne for the work that is being done on our ‘step up’ initiative in the Pacific – it has had an extraordinary response.
From the Southwest Pacific nations themselves who we just see as family and who just see us as family.
But to the broader world of France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, Germany, all very keen to work with Australia and New Zealand in terms of our leadership of that initiative in the Pacific.
To our peacekeeping forces and our presence in the Middle East.
These are reflections of our commitment to an international order that encourages freedom, peace and prosperity.
Jerusalem - the home of the Al Aqsa Mosque, the Wailing Wall and the Via Dolorosa - deserves better than the rancid stalemate and better than the polarisation that marks its peoples.
When Anwar Sadat courageously addressed the Knesset just over 40 years ago, he said “there is no happiness to the detriment of others”.
Those words are still true.
The Israeli and Palestinian people deserve a peace as worthy as the promise of their lands – and they deserve a lasting happiness that can only spring from a shared peace.
Australians have earned the right to call for such a peace and to make our contributions on how that peace can be realised, consistent with who we are and what we believe in.
At the end of the day, it all comes down to what you believe in.
It’s good to be back here again, I was here last year and when I was here as Treasurer I said to you; “You’ve got to vote for the economy.
You’ve got to focus on the things that are going to do the right thing for the economy”.
That doesn’t mean you’re partisan or anything like that, but you run businesses and what’s good for the economy is good for business.
So it’s important to back the policies and it’s important to back those who are putting in place the policies that are good for the economy.
Now why is that important?
Many years ago people used to talk about strong economy management.
The Coalition is very good at it.
Peter Costello was Australia’s finest ever Treasurer.
Kelly O’Dwyer is here, she worked with Peter, we both worked with him when we worked in the treasury portfolios together.
We often seek his counsel.
Our finest ever Treasurer produced outstanding economic management.
But it’s not something you just put on a wall, a strong economy and go: “Well gee, isn’t that lovely, we’ve done terribly well for ourselves, let’s pat ourselves on the back.
” For me and for my team, a strong economy is not an end in its own right.
It’s the essential thing that this nation requires in order to deliver the services the infrastructure, the thing that matter to Australians.
That’s what it’s for.
That’s it’s utility, it’s not some sort of academic exercise.
It’s not some economists picnic, it is what is absolutely essential for those of us who serve in public life, go into public life for.
To ensure that Australians can have the services and the infrastructure, the opportunities that they rely on.
And you create it; businesses represented here and well beyond this room, you create the economy that enables us to pay for affordable medicines.
Spinraza is a drug that deals with spinal muscular atrophy.
We listed that in this year’s Budget, saving kids lives.
That’s what a strong economy does.
We’re going to invest $30 billion more in hospitals over the next five years.
That what a strong economy does.
$37 billion more in schools around the country, a 65 per cent increase in per student funding.
Backing in independent schools, non-state schools, state schools all of them, that’s what a strong economy does.
It is helping Australians realise their opportunities.
Fiona Simpson is here tonight, $7 billion in support for our farmers and rural and regional communities in response to the drought.
You can’t do that if you don’t have a strong economy.
Its doesn’t happen and you don’t create a stronger economy by killing it with taxes.
That’s what I said to you this time last year.
You don’t do that, you cannot have a stronger economy, an even stronger economy, if you take a wet blanket of higher tax and throw it over the top.
You’ll douse it, you’ll frustrate it, you’ll suffocate it, you’ll switch it down, you’ll turn it off.
When you do that, they you cannot deliver on the essential services and the things that really, really matter to Australians.
Now, some will tell you: “Oh, we can pay for that with higher taxes.
” It’s a false economy, it’s a false economy.
You turn the taxes up, you turn the economy down, a zero sum game, it’s a trick, it’s a lie.
Lower taxes, that’s what produces a stronger economy.
You know, I was up in Darwin recently and I spoke to the Chamber up in Darwin and I talked about our plan.
I said; “Our plan for creating this stronger economy was about tax relief to encourage and reward hard-working Australians, whether they’re running their own businesses running their own farms, whether they’re hard=-working wage earners, we’ve legislated tax relief for all of them.
$144 billion worth of personal income tax relief legislated through the Australian Parliament.
Now, if you tell Australians that you get to keep more of what you earn - because it’s their money by the way and it’s your money, running a small family business - you are able to keep more of that and invest it back into your business, more of what you earn is what you get to keep, then that can only be supporting what is going in and around the economy.
If floats everybody’s boat, it lifts everybody up.
That’s why we believe in our heart of hearts as Liberals and Nationals that we need to ensure that we keep taxes down.
Because we believe that Australians should keep more of what they earn.
They have worked hard for it, you’ve worked hard for it, why should you give more of it to me?
People say: “Oh, you need to pay higher taxes so we can pay for hospitals and we can pay for schools and we can pay for affordable medicines”, well I’ll tell you how we pay for that; we pay for that by the economy being stronger and stronger and stronger and stronger.
See, we are delivering all of those things at record levels and not in increasing your taxes.
In fact we are cutting your taxes, because that is what we believe as Liberals and as Nationals.
We believe in having a stronger economy, not being an end in its own right, but we believe in what it can produce.
How we can make the economy stronger, that focus on a stronger economy is getting the Budget back into balance.
I announced this week, yesterday, that we will deliver a Budget on the 2nd of April.
Josh Frydenberg will be the most successful Treasurer since Peter Costello.
I suspect he won’t be recognised by Euromoney, to his great disappointment.
Apparently delivering surpluses is not what Euromoney recognise as being the essential ingredients for being the world’s greatest treasurer.
But I’ll tell you what; he will be the next Treasurer to deliver a surplus in this country and the last one was Peter Costello.
Now, I will tell him I gave him a bit of help.
And I’m sure he will make mention of it or else –
But the Budget is coming back into balance and that has been hard work, really hard work.
Hard decisions, getting expenditure under control.
The lowest growth in public expenditure growth in more than 50 years - that’s fair dinkum more than 50 years - we have constrained expenditure growth, we have constrained growth in taxation we have put a cap, a speed limit on taxes.
You know, if you’re serious about controlling expenditure in this country you’ve got to be serious about controlling taxes.
I have sat round and chaired ERC for many years now.
The best way to control how much people spend is making sure you only take in what you need and that’s what we’re doing as a Government.
We’re keeping taxes under control, we’re keeping expenditure under control and it is bringing the Budget back into balance.
Next year we are hitting surplus again and that’s a great achievement.
It means that the Western Australia Chamber of Commerce and Industry – who I would argue have had the most successful lobbying efforts over the last few years, I don’t know whether you give out a prize within the Chamber for these sorts of things –
I tell you they made their case and they convinced me.
The reason they convinced me is that it was important and it’s been enabled by a strong economy and getting our Budget back into balance, that we can finally fix the unfairness that existed with how the GST was distributed across our states and territories.
Western Australia was held back for too long and we’ve been able to fix that without holding or taking any from any other state or territory in the Commonwealth.
Why?
Because we have managed the economy well, we have managed the Budget well.
So we are guaranteeing that funding for schools and hospitals and essential services.
We have record investments in infrastructure.
I’ve got to say one of the proudest days I have had as a Member of Parliament, as a Minister, as Prime Minister, was to turn the first sod of Western Sydney Airport.
I have been involved in that issue for decades and it’s now happening, because of a government that decides it is important to build things, that build our economy.
People have talked about it -
Give yourselves a clap, you’re all part of it.
People talked about this for decades, but as a Government over the last five years we set about doing it and ensuring that the top sod has been turned on Western Sydney Airport.
That is now reality which is transforming Western Sydney, Craig Kelly will know this, out in Liverpool Western Sydney University has built their vertical campus in the middle of Liverpool.
It’s the biggest training centre for nurses anywhere in New South Wales.
The reason they decided to put it in Liverpool, which is a city which is transforming before your very eyes - it reminds me of Parramatta 25 years ago - they decided to put it there, because of the Western Sydney Airport.
Because of what was happening in Western Sydney, because of the investment in infrastructure that our Government had put in place.
That led them to make that investment and then others made investments and then others make investments.
You know how it works, that’s how an economy grows and that’s why we’ve made those investments in infrastructure, the Inland Rail, the list goes on, the North South Corridor, the M1 up in Queensland, the new water pipe line up in Townsville.
All of these infrastructure investments are designed to do one thing; Grow our economy.
We want to have an industrial relations system - which I know Kelly O’Dwyer belives passionately in - which does not set employers against employees.
I joked the other day - but it is not a joke it is a serious deal – that Labor’s industrial relations policy is a throwback to the 1970s.
It was written by people with flares and long hair.
This is a policy that will divide workers and their employers.
You know, when I walk into businesses, particularly small and medium sized businesses I see people working together.
That’s what I see.
I see people who want to work together.
I see people that have arrangements that enable them to all benefit from the success of the organisation, of the enterprise.
That’s a healthy workplace and that’s what we want to see.
We want to see Australian work places working together, employers, employees, managers all of them understanding that the way you get ahead, is not to pull some down and lift others up, but everybody gets ahead.
That’s our vision for workplace relations in this country.
The result of our plan is pretty straight forward; we’ve got growth running at over 3 per cent.
It’s got a 3 in front of it.
We have got unemployment down to 5 per cent.
50,000 less people are unemployed today than in the last election.
Over 100,000 Australians, young Australians, have got a job last financial year the strongest grown in youth employment in Australia’s economic history.
How many weddings have you been to, how many bar mitzvahs, how many christenings, how many 21sts have you been to as business employers, as owners, of your staff?
How many weddings and how proud were you when you looked at those young people that you gave a job to?
How good is that?
I mean you’re in it to make a living, but you’re passionate about what you’re doing and how you change lives, when it comes to how you run your business.
That’s what small and family businesses are all about and that’s why we back small and family businesses.
That’s why we see small and medium sized family businesses as being the engine of our economy.
Michaelia Cash is here tonight and she is responsible for that portfolio and she is doing a stunning job and together with Josh Frydenberg and Kelly we have been working on some packages and some plans to further support small and family businesses in Australia.
You already know that we’ve reduced taxes, as we were doing before, to 25 per cent and we have brought that forward.
You already know that we have extended the instant asset write off.
You already know that we have lifted the small business definition from $2 million to $10 million, so you get access to pool depreciation and GST on a cash basis and things like that.
You already know about that, that stuff we’ve already done that has encouraged small businesses all around the country.
On that alone, the biggest support for small and family businesses from any government in generations, true to the Menzies foundations of our party as Liberals, supporting those small and family businesses.
But in recent months I’ve decided as Prime Minister that we need to go even further.
That we need to give even more support for small and medium family sized businesses across Australia.
The first one deals with cash, getting paid.
Cash flow always starts with getting paid.
If the invoices you issue are not being paid, that hurts your business, that makes it harder for your business.
Businesses, small businesses should never be treated as a bank by governments or large businesses.
We should all pay on time.
I am pleased to say that our Government has been working to do just that.
97 per cent of Australian Government bills under $1 million are being paid within 30 days and we are taking this down to 20 days by the 1st of July 2019.
I’m also taking payment times to COAG in just under a month, to encourage all states to catch NSW where they’ve gone to 20 days for those payments, where we are also going.
I want State Government and Commonwealth Government to pay small businesses on time and recently when I spoke at the BCA dinner, I talked about their supply code.
Qantas is here tonight, Trent is here, they are part of that.
They’ve got 13,000 small businesses that are part of Qantas’ supply chain.
They have signed up.
That’s at 30 days, I’m hoping not just Qantas, but the whole lot will go down to 20 days as well.
What we have said is that anyone who wants to work with the Commonwealth Government, you’ve got to agree to those terms as well.
You’ve got to pay businesses on time, because the quicker the money moves around, the better the economy does, it’s just common sense.
So we are working to deliver that.
We are also requiring that more businesses with a 100 million turnover, that’s 3,000 business to publish information on how they pay their small businesses.
I want to see the score board.
You need to see the score board if you are a small or family business.
Who are the big businesses that pay on time?
Now we already know that there are large businesses that are already dropping - as a result of what I announced only a week ago - their payment terms from 90 days in regional areas of Australia particularly Queensland, down to 30 days.
That’s a big shift, that is a big shift and it is called leadership.
It’s called leadership when you say as a Government you’re going to do it and you expect others to do it as well.
We are already seeing others follow and we appreciate that.
But there is more than that.
You need to get access to capital, you need to get access to finance if you are a small and family business.
So we are setting up the Australian Securitisation Fund, $2 billion to invest in deepening the capital base, the finance base for new lenders in the marketplace to be able to source their finance at a lower cost so they can lend it on to you, at a lower cost.
We need more competition in our banking and financial system, we want more of these new lenders, who get small business, who don’t say to you; “Give me your house and a mortgage over your kids and all the rest of it, and we’ll give you some money if we feel good about it.
”
No.
We want to see all these other businesses who are getting out there and establishing new payment models, new systems, new fintech companies who are going to go out there and they need to access lower cost finance to deliver that to you.
And we’re backing that in with $2 billion investment in the securitization market to ensure that is freed up.
We’re also working to establish with the banks the Australian Business Growth Fund modelled on the UK experience.
Now that fund, together with the small business finance arrangements actually work together, as we’ve seen happen in other places.
Getting access to the capital, which can then be backed up by the access to the finance.
Then, you’re realizing the ambitions the you have for your business.
But it’s not just about that.
It’s about tax complexity and red tape.
Now, it may be a dry topic but if you’re running a small and family business, it’s a critical topic.
As well as putting more incentive in the tax system, we’re working to ensure that it is fair, not only when it comes to the design, but to the implementation of the tax system.
As a former Treasurer I know the good work the ATO do.
Now, I know there will be at least 200 stories in this place that won’t be that flattering to the ATO, but I suspect there will be some that are.
Their job is to ensure the integrity of our taxation system, so we can deliver the essential services that all Australians rely on.
Taxes should be lower, but everyone should pay them.
That’s also a rule I think it’s good to follow and the ATO seek to ensure that occurs.
But I understand the concerns, as does Michaelia, of small business when it comes to dealing with the ATO.
There is no denying the complexity involved and we are focused on reducing that complexity.
We know you’re focused on running your business, not studying the Tax Act or sifting through rules and determinations.
The ATO recognises this too and they have taken steps – you’ve got to give them this - to improve the way they work with over 3 million small businesses.
They’ve opened up more lines of communication with their after-hours call back service, gone out into the business community with their roadshows and they’ve looked at their debt collection and penalty relief processes.
Small business interactions with the ATO should be smooth and the vast majority are.
Ideally once you’ve lodged your return, paid your tax bill, or received the refund that you are entitled to, that should be it.
But for those who experience an audit or a dispute we understand the impact this has on you and your business.
It can be stressful, intimidating and confronting and you will rack up some expenses when you deal with this.
Under our Government, you’ll be able to deduct those expenses.
Under the Labor plan, you won’t, it’ll be capped so if you’ve got a big fight with the Tax Office, your legal expenses will not be deducted over a certain amount.
But those who experience an audit, we understand how it can impact you and while there are many good things the ATO does to make the process easier, we need to do that.
The dedicated complaints hotline for small business, independent reviews of audits before they are finalised, advocates to support vulnerable and unrepresented taxpayers through the objections process and independent ,trained mediators to resolve cases.
But there is more that we have to do.
That’s why I’m announcing tonight that we will be establishing ten new tax clinics, in conjunction with major and regional universities, to provide free assistance to small businesses and individuals with disputes with the ATO.
These tax clinics will ensure small businesses in need have access to specialist advice from tax practitioners and students in the field on a pro bono basis.
The Government will also be reviewing the avenues through which small businesses are compensated if the ATO’s handling of the case causes an economic or personal loss.
The review will be run out of the Department of Finance and they will report back in the new year.
A small number of cases go through the ATO’s disputes process all the way to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.
Tonight, I’m announcing a range of measures to make this path towards resolution easier.
Our Government will establish a small business concierge service within the Small Business Ombudsman’s office, to provide support and know-how about the AAT process before application.
We’re creating a dedicated Small Business Taxation Division within the AAT, so small business will have a case manager supporting them throughout the entire process, a standard application fee of just $500 and decisions fast-tracked to within 28 days of a hearing.
This is just another step the Government is taking to ensure a level playing field for small business.
It’s proof that we’re on your side, when it comes to what we want for you small businesses.
We want small businesses to succeed.
Of course that’s in addition to the many other measures that we’ve announced, that include raising the thresholds for asset financial reporting, through from 25 to 50 on consolidated revenue, $12.
5 to $25 million of assets and 50-100 employees.
That means 2200 companies won’t be required to complete those annual asset financial reporting arrangements, saving $80 million in red tape costs over the year, which we think is a good thing.
Now finally, it’s also about the people who work for you and the skills that they need.
Those skills are also key to the economic futures of Australians in a modern economy.
We know the strength and dynamism of our economy has increased demand for new skills and a higher level of skills over someone’s entire working life.
Providing a skilled workforce, especially for small businesses, depends on the vocational education and training sector, it comes not just from our universities.
We believe in this form of education.
We believe it equips Australians and it’s not just about training school-leavers to attain employment.
It’s about ensuring people can update their skills throughout their entire working life.
So in the VET sector, to be able to respond and adapt to future demands for higher skills, changing industry composition and structural change especially in regional and rural Australia and people working longer and in varied roles over the course of their working lives.
We need to strengthen our VET system, not simply as an economic imperative but to ensure Australians are equipped for the workforce of the future.
So tonight, I’m announcing that the Government has commissioned an important review of our vocational education sector in Australia, which will be conducted very promptly and quickly to make sure we’re training the right people for the right jobs in the years ahead.
Now the person I have asked, with Michaelia Cash, to do this job has pretty good experience in doing it from across the ditch.
Steven Joyce the former New Zealand Minister for Tertiary Education, Skills and Employment and was also the former Minister for Finance in New Zealand.
He will bring a fresh perspective on what is needed here and what we can do here, based on his extensive and successful work and reforms that he put in place in New Zealand.
He is the architect of those reforms to their apprenticeship and industry training system and was one of the most senior and most successful ministers in the Key Government in New Zealand.
We’ve asked Steven to consult widely and I’m sure ACCI will be very involved in that process and that is the task that he has.
The Review will have a particular focus on ensuring Australian businesses have the skills they need to support their business growth.
The Review will build on the work Minister Cash is already leading, including  the reforms to the Skilling Australians Fund.
That fund, some $1.
5 billion, supports state and territory governments to increase apprenticeships and every single cent of that fund, every single cent will be spent on vocational education and training in this country.
Even where some states and territory governments – as is the case in Victoria and Queensland - where they haven’t signed up to that.
That’s disappointing, that’s unfortunate and I would still hope they will look carefully at this arrangement with the Skilling Australians Fund and sign on to ensure they are getting the access to those funds to deliver the programmes that are important in their states and territories.
But every single cent will be spent, of that Skilling Australians Fund, in vocational education and training in Australia.
But there’s one thing further I’m announcing tonight which will be supporting apprentices in Australia; I’m pleased to announce that we will be expanding eligibility of the Support for Adult Australian Apprenticeships Initiative, so that it will include apprentices aged between 21 and 24.
Previously this initiative was only available for those 25 and older, but given that adult apprentices, for wage purposes, are now defined as being over 21 years of age this has left those between 21 and 24 at a disadvantage.
This will mean about 12,500 adult apprentices over the next three budget years will be supported by a one-off $4,000 payment.
We are doing this because getting young Australians to learn skills for meaningful employment is not just something that helps the economy; it’s something that can change people’s lives and ensure they’re on a path to a better life.
You know, under our Government we have reached the point where we have the lowest level of welfare dependence of the working age population, in more than 25 years.
That’s what turns a budget deficit into a budget surplus.
It’s the old 12 point turnaround; you stop them scoring at the other end, your end, and you score down the other.
You get someone who was receiving the welfare payment and you turn them into a taxpayer with a job.
That’s what our Government has been doing and these initiatives I’ve been announcing tonight are all about that.
So I’ll conclude where I started; all of this is about building a stronger economy.
Why?
Because that’s the only way you can look Australians in the eye and say: “I’m going to fund your hospital, I’m going to fund your medicine, I’m going to fund your school, I’m going to fund the Disability Insurance Scheme.
We’re going to make Australia stronger and you do that with a stronger economy.
You can’t do it with higher taxes.
You do it by encouraging the people who are in this room, the people who run businesses all around the country in our cities, in our suburbs, in our rural and regional areas all around the country.
That’s how you create a stronger Australia and that’s what our Government is delivering, by focusing on delivering the stronger economy.
From a young age I have always been fascinated by the energy and flow of cities.
Each one unique – like living organisms, with their own rhythms, patterns and personalities.
Each a living history of the choices people, businesses and families have made and what they have been trying to create for their future and the generations to follow.
Choices about work, about proximity to family, and to opportunity.
Choices shaped by access to housing and services like schools, health care and shopping precincts.
And conditioned in turn by a search for belonging and a sense of place.
From Lachlan Macquarie to Sir Henry Parkes and now Gladys Berejiklian, they have worked to respond to and anticipate these demands as well as dream and plan out the future they hope to create.
We are continuing to tell our stories as a people through our cities.
And along the way we have been informed, guided and blessed by the Greenways and Bradfields, whose great genius has been to lift our aspiration by redefining what we know to be possible.
It would also be a mistake to think of them as just engineers and architects.
They were true planners.
You don’t build a bridge with that many lanes in 1932 because you enjoyed the engineering challenge.
You did it because you were planning for the future and you got it.
You had a vision for Sydney being a great city and you planned and built for it.
Today’s Greenways and Bradfields are not only developing Western Sydney Airport and the Aerotroplis, they are also the scientists from the CSIRO at the new Urban Living Lab in Darwin, Australia’s tropical capital, established as part of our new Darwin City Deal with $4.
8 million in new funding to get it up and running.
For the first time we will be bringing together experts in the area of managing tropical cities.
Everything from waste management to how urban vegetation can be better planned to more effectively cool these urban environments.
This is also a significant services export opportunity for Australia.
With more than billions of people living in urban environments in tropical regions of the world – including some of the world’s largest cities – I am excited about how we can link our expertise and learning to these significant commercial opportunities.
To this end, we have just launched an initiative to link up with ASEAN’s Smart Cities Agenda.
It will draw on Australia’s world class expertise in green infrastructure, water governance, renewable energy, innovative technologies and data analytics.
For a while, I tossed up becoming a Town Planner.
Eventually, I found myself studying Economic Geography at UNSW.
I was one of only about eight students – studying everything from crop rotation to Walter Christaller’s “central place theory”.
I can see now that I’ve really piqued your interest!
For the one person who may be interested, we can talk later.
But my studies and later experiences reinforced some important lessons about cities.
In short, cities are a solution to a human problem.
How do you support a growing population?
Cities are not about buildings, bridges, roads, railways, hospitals and airports.
They are about the people who use them.
They are about the people who live in the cities.
Cities are a response to population growth and are the product of a developing economy.
Bradfield understood this.
His focus was not on building infrastructure as public monuments, but addressing positively and aspirationally the challenges of a growing population.
When you understand that Cities are actually about people rather than concrete it changes your perspective.
Firstly, this is why each and every city has its own unique character.
You don’t then try and transform Sydney’s built form into Singapore’s, any more than you try and make Brisbane Perth or Townsville Newcastle.
Just like us as people, we should let our cities be themselves, a product of the people who live in them, their geography and climate.
A city and the society it supports finds its own course, like a river finds its way to sea, negotiating the geological features along the way.
The city becomes the product of its experience and evolution, of how it responds to challenges and pressures – for better or worse.
As we acknowledge our our cities are about people, the decisions we make must be made with – not against – the grain of peoples’ choices – and in line with their aspirations.
It means that our approach to decision-making or planning must have an eye and ear to community sentiment, cohesion and ambition.
About what they want for their city.
So what has all of this got to do with my role as Prime Minister and that of Commonwealth Government?
First of all, my role you’ll be thankful is not to play town planner, be first architect, Lord Mayor or indeed Premier.
That’s not my job.
I will leave those tasks to the Bradfields and the Greenways of our current generation.
My levers are confined to the ensuring we step up to the big nation building projects and challenges, drive our economy forward to fuel the essential services and infrastructure Australians rely on and seek to manage population growth by adopting well targeted, responsible, and sustainable immigration policies.
Now on the big projects, like Bradfield, we are stepping up.
And like Bradfield we understand that infrastructure creates value far beyond the construction and land acquisition cost of the asset being built.
With a record $75 billion infrastructure pipeline, we are playing our part.
We are strengthening the road spine of the Eastern Seaboard with major investments in the Bruce Highway and the Pacific Highway.
As Treasurer, I announced a further $3.
3 billion in this year’s Budget for additional upgrades along the Bruce Highway, increasing the Government’s commitment to $10 billion between Brisbane and Cairns.
This will improve safety, capacity and flood immunity – with major work targeting poor safety stretches along this vital 1,700 kilometre stretch of road.
Continuation of our $6.
6 billion investment in the duplication of the Pacific Highway, from Hexham to Queensland including $971 million for the Coffs Harbour Bypass in this year’s Budget.
Our investment in the Pacific Highway has already halved road fatalities and cut two hours from travel times – a big benefit in cutting freight costs and for locals – and in summertime, holiday-makers as well.
This project has supported 14,400 direct and indirect jobs.
We are making further big road investments in South Australia, Tasmania and Victoria, including our standing offer of $3 billion for the East West Link.
I can help get this project moving next Monday morning, I just need a state Premier who wants to build this vital infrastructure, and only Matt Guy is offering.
We are making major investments in rail as well.
$9.
3 billion in equity financing and grant funding for the Melbourne to Brisbane Inland Rail project – better connecting regional Australia to domestic and international markets
Preparatory work is underway and construction is due to commence soon.
The project will support 16,000 jobs during construction.
In Western Australia, we are providing $2.
3 billion to the METRONET – which is the largest Commonwealth commitment to the Perth rail network ever.
And in Victoria we are investing up to $5 billion on the Melbourne Airport Rail Link.
A project people have talked about for fifty years – its Australia’s second busiest airport with 35 million passengers a year.
And that’s not the only project with a fifty year wait over.
You have heard every year at this lecture about the potential of a Western Sydney Airport.
Well this year, I have better news: the bulldozers are on the site – and earthworks to level the site are underway.
No longer are we saying we will build it – we are building it.
Right now.
And we are backing in our $5.
3 billion in equity financing for the airport with the Commonwealth’s contribution of $2.
9 billion to the $3.
6 billion Western Sydney Infrastructure Plan – because our Government said in 2014 we’d have the roads ready before the airport.
Through the Western Sydney City Deal we have also got the planning underway to have rail to the airport when it opens in 2026.
In the North of Australia we are investing in its potential with $5 billion Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility to kickstart a range of work – and $2.
2 billion to upgrade roads in the north across Queensland, the NT and WA.
Earlier today, the Deputy Prime Minister Michael McCormack announced we will increase our funding of new water infrastructure projects across Australia by an additional $500 million.
This will lift spending on water infrastructure to more than $3 billion.
These investments will ensure we can fast track important water infrastructure projects that will deliver new, reliable and affordable sources of water to stimulate investment in irrigated agriculture, create jobs and underpin regional economic growth.
An infrastructure programme like this needs a strong economy to support it and that’s why growing our economy has been the core focus of our Government.
Without economic growth you cannot pay for the hospitals, schools, pensions, affordable medicines, defence forces, police forces, Medicare.
Poorer societies are never fairer societies.
Getting an equal share of less is not my plan, nor do I think it represents fairness.
Fairness and prosperity go hand in hand.
There are a billion people in the world today since 1990 who are no longer in poverty who can attest to that fact.
Our economic plan is getting results, with strong growth, lower unemployment record jobs growth, and a AAA rated budget coming back into surplus next year.
We will keep on with our plan of:
Reduce taxes, so Australians households and small and medium sized businesses can keep more of what they earn
Reduce electricity prices by ensuring we increase the amount of reliable energy in the system and ensure the large electricity companies give their customers a better deal
Investing in the infrastructure that grows our economy and the services like health and education that enable our people to be successful in the economy they face today and in the future
Expanding our markets with record trade deals that have opened up new opportunities for our businesses large and small
A broad-based industry strategy that recognises traditional strengths such as resources and agriculture, but also looks to develop areas of growth in services, the defence industry, medical technology and manufacturing.
A bold new agenda for small business growth, including improved access to small business finance and cutting red tape.
A proven framework of fiscal responsibility – ensuring the Government lives within its  means.
Population growth has played a key role in our economic success.
But I also know Australians in our biggest cities are concerned about population.
They are saying: enough, enough, enough.
The roads are clogged, the buses and trains are full.
The schools are taking no more enrolments.
I hear what you are saying.
I hear you loud and clear.
That’s why we need to improve how we manage population growth in this country.
We have become, especially in Sydney and Melbourne a victim of our success.
Our population growth has three sources, natural growth occurring from the life decisions of Australian families, permanent overseas migration, and temporary migration made up of students, temporary workers and so on.
Over the current decade, around 42 per cent of the growth has occurred naturally and migration has accounted for about 58 per cent.
Over the two decades to 2016, our national population grew by 6 million and migration made up 54 per cent of that increase.
Population growth has provided our country with benefits that we often take for granted.
It has added a dynamism to our economy and society that you don’t find in most other advanced economies.
It is a key reason why we have been able to sustain strong growth in our economy and national incomes that are the envy of the developed world, contributing almost a fifth of the growth in Australia’s GDP per person over the past 30 years.
Population growth, along with productivity, will become even more important for sustaining strong growth in national living standards over the next 30 years as the ageing of the population weighs on workforce participation.
The median age of a migrant to Australia is between 26 years of age.
This compares to our national average age of 37.
Mostly, new migrants are working and as such, contributing to the welfare of the nation, rather than drawing from government.
Without migration, Australia’s workforce would be shrinking by 2020.
With migration, the Productivity Commission estimates that labour force participation will be around 10 per cent higher in 2060.
And contrary to what is sometimes claimed, the Productivity Commission has found that migration confers no negative outcome to employment for those who are Australian born.
In fact, it increases opportunity for Australians.
It is worth remembering that because skilled migration supports the economy, Australia does compete with other countries in bringing those additional skills to our shores.
We must also recognise the economic benefits of temporary migration.
This year, we have almost 600,000 foreign students studying in Australia.
From the cafes of Glebe and the bars of Parramatta, to the computer stores of Canberra and the laundromats of Coffs Harbour, these students are supporting jobs.
Far too often, planners have treated population as one amorphous blob.
But that doesn’t work for Australia.
We’re too big and diverse.
Talking about average population growth is like talking about our average rainfall.
It fails to recognise the different experiences and outlooks of different cities or regions.
Over the past decade, our population has had an annual growth rate of more than 1.
6 per cent.
I stress well below our economic growth rate of over three per cent, which means per person we have been doing better as well.
According to the World Bank, Australia’s population is growing faster than most OECD countries including the United States – and faster than the projections of past Inter-Generational Reports.
And within that growth there are variances with Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart and Canberra experiencing population growth during 2016-17 above their respective average growth rates for the previous 20 years.
While migration has accounted for 54 per cent of Australia’s population increase in the two decades to 2016, 75 per cent of migrants are going to Sydney, Melbourne and South East Queensland.
Here in Sydney migrants accounted for around 70% of population growth last year.
This has created its own pressure points – and pressure points in population always manifest themselves in housing and infrastructure.
Now I should add, this focus on migration in capital cities is not a new phenomenon, but there has been a tick-up.
In 2016, 83 per cent of the overseas-born population were in capital cities, compared to 81 per cent in 1996.
For, the Australian born population it was 61 per cent in 2016, having ticked up from 60 per cent in 1996.
It mirrors an age-old truth – and that is, since the dawn of time, people have moved to where they believe they can they see the best economic and social opportunities for them and their families.
In our big cities, interstate migration is also an important component of population change.
We saw that very clearly with the mining boom as Australians moved to areas that were thriving.
That is a natural part of a national economy and government has no control, nor any desire for control, over that aspect of population.
Indeed, this movement of people is an important way of capitalising on the economic opportunities available to us.
I believe that we need a new discussion with the state and territories and local governments about how we manage and plan for our changing population.
Of course, the Commonwealth will always have national responsibilities in terms of determining migrant intakes, security, our international obligations and the economy, but that does mean we should not engage with the States and Territories in a discussion about local population growth.
It should be a discussion grounded in data, economics and community sentiment.
A responsible population discussion cannot be arbitrarily about one number, the cap on annual permanent migration.
It is certainly relevant, but you have to look at what sits behinds those numbers
For a start more than half the people who become permanent migrants are already here on temporary visas.
To contemplate our permanent visa settings, would also require up stream changes to how many people are coming in on temporary visas as well.
The implications of this need to be understood, in lauding by state and territory governments.
My approach will be to move away from top-down discussions about population to set our migration intake caps.
I anticipate that this will lead to a reduction in our current migration settings.
This is to be expected since our current permanent intake is almost 30,000 a year below our current cap.
So we will look to make an adjustment as we go forward in to next year and this should not be surprising.
But we must do our homework first and make sure this is implemented in a way that does not disadvantage those states that are looking for greater growth and that we have the mechanisms in place to direct new migrants to the areas where there are the jobs, services and opportunities.
That’s why the planning partnership with the states is so important.
Managing population change is a shared responsibility, involving all levels of government.
It is the states who build hospitals, approve housing developments, plan roads and know how many kids will be going into their schools in the future.
The states and territories know better than any what the population carrying capacity is for their existing and planned infrastructure and services.
So I plan to ask them, before we set our annual caps.
The old model of a single, national number determined by Canberra is no longer fit for purpose.
While the benefits of population growth are widespread – in terms of economic growth and a more skilled and enriched society – the pressure points are inevitably local and varied.
It’s about getting the balance right and understanding there is variation between our cities and regions.
For example, Tasmania has a different history and approach to population than Sydney and Melbourne.
Under Will Hodgman the state has worked to turn its fortunes around – and the Federal Government has worked with them.
And do you know the best thing when you look at Tassie’s interstate migration figures – it’s that the turnaround is happening with young people.
Tasmania wants a bigger population.
They want growth.
They don’t want to lag, they want to lead.
Many of the smaller cities – and the regions – want more people.
South Australia, the Northern Territory, Western Australia, communities in North Queensland like Rockhampton have all said the same.
In Sydney, we face a different issue.
A booming economy – with 4.
4 per cent unemployment – and over 300 cranes up over this skyline – this city has become a magnet for Australians wanting a better life.
We know the story in Sydney: congestion – on roads and public transport, pressure on services like schools, and until recently, ever increasing house prices.
And this is in a state with a good government that is investing $87 billion in new transport, schools and hospitals in the next four years.
In 2016-17, Sydney’s population increased by 107,000.
In other words, Sydney grew by almost 2,000 people a week, every week.
A suburb a week.
Of that overseas migration claimed the lion’s share – with 90,100 people.
But the Sydney story on population is not just a migration story.
It’s also a quality of life story.
In 2016-17, a net 18,500 people left Sydney for other parts of Australia.
While some of that is older Sydney-siders cashing in on their capital gains and retiring to other parts of the state, those figures also reflect concerns about densities, congestion and other questions that relate to quality of life.
So we need a more targeted and tailored approach to conversations about population.
To this end, I am writing to the Premiers and Chief Ministers inviting them to contribute to a national strategy and framework on population, and putting this on the table for COAG at our next meeting on 12 December in Adelaide.
I want the states to bring forward their population plans targeted to their states.
This process can also involve local government.
This will feed in to the setting of our migrations caps and policies for next year, ensuring that migrations is finally tied to infrastructure and services carrying capacity.
Further details of this process will be discussed directly with Premiers and Chief Ministers.
In conclusion I want to congratulate the Daily Telegraph for being a voice for Sydney.
In 2014, there was a lot of nervousness about our decision to build the Western Sydney Airport.
There was fifty years of resistance.
But the government felt that the time had come – and to the credit of the Telegraph you did too.
This is a paper that is not just proudly Sydney – but persuasively puts the case for a Sydney with more roads, better services, and a stronger economy and safer communities.
We don’t agree every day – but you are a clear, persuasive voice in this city and country..
It is great to be here in Port Moresby.
Papua New Guinea is not just Australia's closest neighbour geographically, we are family - wantok - and it’s right -
Thank you.
But that’s true also if we were talking about Fiji or throughout Polynesia, we’re whanau.
We see ourselves as part of a family in the Pacific.
So it’s right that we gather together here in Port Moresby because we honour and recognised that he “P” in APEC; the Pacific and particularly the Pacific Island economies, as I said, that we refer to as our Pacific family.
I have already made it clear as Prime Minister that Australia is stepping up.
We will step up as part of our ‘step-up’ initiative in Pacific.
We are taking and will take our engagement in the Pacific to a new level.
I was reminded recently of another new Australian Prime Minister addressing his first APEC ministerial meeting.
It was 1996 and it was then Prime Minister John Howard.
He said there were three preconditions for growth in our region.
The first was responsible domestic economic management.
The second was market access for exports and the third was tackling infrastructure constraints.
As we gather today I believe those guiding principles for economic prosperity are as relevant today as when John first mentioned them all those years ago.
You know, no country gets rich selling things to itself.
That’s why APEC encourages trade and by taking practical steps on the things that matter to business - faster customs procedures, facilitating supply chain connectivity, promoting sustainable development, facilitating the digital economy and digital connectedness.
APEC must remain a very practical forum.
It cannot be about talk, it has to be engaged in very practical measures with a focus on facilitating business and a business environments that set the right conditions for business.
While most of you in this room understand full well the benefits of trade - if you didn’t you would not be here - we are living in an age though when leaders and business need to proactively prosecute the case for open markets and a market-led economy.
We are witnessing a rising tide of trade protectionism around the world in our constituencies, along with financial market volatility in some emerging markets.
Fortunately for all of us, the strong relationships between APEC economies and the strong relationship we share with the business community, gives us the right foundation to tackle global challenges together.
The test for us now, for all of us, is to stand up for the economic values we believe in.
To show how they work, to demonstrate it.
How they lift living standards and have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, as those key, core economic values have led to policies and achieved those goals.
As they have done.
To show people, all of our people in our APEC economies and nations around the world, what happens when you are open and when you work in partnership; that you create jobs, build prosperity and you create a more stable, secure and more peaceful region.
When it comes to trade, Australia's actions match our words.
We have among the lowest tariffs in the world and we have a consistent record for negotiating free-trade agreements with partners.
Stay still long enough and our Trade Minister will do a deal with you.
We all need to look beyond our own market if we are to boost our prosperity and Australia has always looked outward to achieve our prosperity.
In Australia, trade liberalisation has benefited our people, just as immigration has, just as foreign investment has.
You know, one in five jobs in Australia exist because of our trade activities and recent research has shown that the average Australian family now earns $8,500 more a year than they would have, if we have not lowered barriers to our trade for the last three decades.
That’s a generational shift.
More than 50,000 Australian businesses are exporters, which contributes nearly $390 billion to our economy.
Australia is not alone in this success.
More than 1 billion people have been lifted out of extreme poverty since 1991, in large part because of the jobs and access to more affordable consumer goods that free trade has enabled.
It works and you should do what works and you should keep doing what works.
That is what Australia is going to do.
Nowhere have we have we seen that more, than in our own Asia-Pacific region.
No single country would have been able to create this prosperity alone.
Success has relied on all of us together, making a commitment to lower barriers, to support openness to play by the rules we set and ensure those rules remain in place.
In Australia, for every big business that benefits from free trade, there are dozens of small and medium-sized businesses who benefit as well.
You don’t have to pick and choose.
I believe APEC needs to find new ways of making it easier for  SMEs to embrace export opportunities, because small and medium businesses are the engine room of so many of our national economies.
They have the capacity to really drive job-creation and the prosperity gains throughout our region.
So my message to you today is that Australia's commitment to free trade remains strong and always will.
Of course we recognise that there are many challenges.
But the solution is not throwing up protectionist barriers.
Tit-for-tat protectionism and threats of trade war are in no-one’s interests economically and undermine the authority of the global and regional trading rules that benefit us all and importantly, the people, the families who live in our economies and are supported by our economies.
So our efforts must be about persuading and convincing our peoples again, about the domestic benefits of what we are doing here.
I know there are legitimate questions around trade arrangements.
But the solution to perceived unfair trade practices is more likely to be found around the negotiating table, than it is in building a tariff wall.
Australia will continue to advocate for trade disputes to be resolved by negotiation and within WTO rules.
But we know the WTO is not perfect.
We will work with like-minded countries around the world to ensure that it is improved and to understand the issues that they are raising, independently listening and seeking to understand.
We want to strengthen and improve the WTO and we will continue to pursue liberalisation wherever we can.
That is what we must do and that is what I will be discussing with APEC leaders and colleagues here at every opportunity.
We do so because Australia practices what we preach.
We recently ratified the TPP-11 agreement which sets 21st Century rules, modern rules, for trade and investment between 11 of the 21 APEC economies and create free trade partnerships where previously there were none.
The door to the TPP remains open.
More can join and we welcome and look forward to those opportunities in the future.
It set the standard for what an agreement should look like into the future, by being modern.
With six countries now on board - and more - the benefits will kick in from the 30th of December this year.
The TPP-11 shows that Australia is a nation committed to economic integration and to opening up new opportunities for businesses across the region.
It shows that Australia will act and we will deliver on free-trade and that we have partners who are willing to do the same.
Still, more nations, APEC members and others in the region are working towards the conclusion of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership which we committed at the East Asia Summit and the RCEP summit, to ensure that this is concluded at the end of next year.
As well, I believe the PACER Plus free trade agreement will open opportunities even further across the Pacific.
PACER Plus has been negotiated between Australia and New Zealand and 12 other members of the Pacific Islands Forum, including six who are not members of the WTO.
When in force, PACER Plus will foster trade and economic integration by aligning align regulatory regimes and allowing a smoother flow of goods, capital and people within regions.
This is a region in the Pacific, full of opportunity where innovation and new business opportunities are being embraced.
Whether it’s the already successful tourism industry, coffee from the PNG highlands or Bougainville’s award-winning chocolate, there is growing market for the output of the Pacific Islands.
Australia, New Zealand and the UK are already buying Fiji-made sports uniforms and Fiji water has become ubiquitous across the world.
Total two-way trade between Australia and Pacific Island countries is now worth more than $11.
5 billion.
The Pacific’s commitment to free trade and growth is another chapter in the extraordinary story of our region's economic transformation.
Across APEC, Australia wants to see more done to tackle non-tariff barriers to trade and structural reform, but no single economy can make this happen on its own.
It does require reciprocity.
As nations look for new trade opportunities they must also provide them.
Trade is a two-way process by definition.
There are plenty of opportunities before us, like developing digital infrastructure and creating the right regulatory environment that protects privacy, while enabling data to move across borders.
Business tells us that we need rules that ensure the free flow of data and facilitate online trade, but at the same time protects consumers and recognises cyber risks.
Australia is focused on creating that environment, which is why our Productivity Commission, working with New Zealand, is examining priority areas for removing barriers to growing the digital economy.
But when we think about the reforms needed, particularly the potential for digital technology, we need to look out across our entire region and that includes the island states of the Pacific.
Digital technology offers transformational opportunities for Pacific Island economies.
It is why PNG's theme for APEC, “Harnessing Inclusive Opportunities, Embracing the Digital Future,” is so apt.
The World Bank estimates digital transformation will grow GDP by more than $5 billion US and create 300,000 new jobs in the Pacific by 2040.
That’s why Australia is supporting the construction of high-speed telecommunications cables from Australia to PNG and the Solomon Islands.
Fiji has already shown us the commercial opportunities of high-speed telecommunication cables, leading the way in the Pacific with successful call centres and a business process outsourcing sector.
Together with partners we are looking at other projects in the very near future in this region.
There is so much opportunity in the Pacific for citizens, businesses and governments and your attendance here is demonstration and affirmation of that.
This leads us to the third pillar of growth; infrastructure.
The Asian Development Bank estimates the Pacific region needs $3.
1 billion US in infrastructure investment, each year until 2030, a tall task.
To contribute to that, last week Australia, the United States and Japan signed a memorandum of understanding to support trilateral cooperation in the Indo Pacific region and I had the opportunity to further the discuss those issues with Prime Minister Abe in Darwin yesterday.
The MOU formalises the trilateral partnership for infrastructure investment in the Indo Pacific which was announced in July.
Under the MOU, the three countries will work together to finance infrastructure projects and mobilise private sector investment to drive future economic growth, job-creation and poverty reduction.
We will work closely with partners to identify projects for the trilateral partnership to support.
So, together with the United States and Japan, we are working closely together, closely together, to drive this agenda.
As well, the Australian Government is setting up a $2 billion Australian Infrastructure Financing Facility for the Pacific, which will significantly boost our support for concessional infrastructure development.
I am looking forward to giving EFIC, Australia’s export financing agency an extra billion dollars in callable capital and a new, more flexible infrastructure financing power to support at commercial rates, investments in the region which also have a broad national benefit for Australia.
These new financing options have the potential to boost partnerships between the public and the private sectors, to create more projects like the Tina River hydropower project in the Solomon Islands, which when it opens, will be a great example of public-private infrastructure investment, bringing together the World Bank with public and private sector investors from Korea and Abu Dhabi.
We are open to working with all partners in the region, all partners in the region.
We want to see infrastructure investment though, that is transparent, that is non- discriminatory, that is open, that upholds robust standards to deliver long-term benefits that meets genuine needs and avoids unsustainable debt burdens.
It must be in the interests of the country in which you are seeking to invest, to ensure we can deliver those projects that can benefit their economy which in turn benefits our entire regional economy.
We want a rules-based system that respect the sovereignty and the independence of every single country and a commitment then to regional security that is always the precondition for prosperity.
But all of us in here in the room know there is more to do and always is.
So the challenge is to strengthen our domestic economic foundations - which I can happily report is the case in Australia - to improve our market access for exports - because you never get rich selling things to yourself - and to finance and build vital infrastructure.
That is as vital today as it has ever been.
Australia is committed to this proven path because we believe in it.
Our external affairs policies are not just the sum of our deals.
They are an expression of our values and our beliefs, whether they are economic or otherwise.
And so we do this, motivated by our convictions, by our beliefs and our values, with a deep commitment to a strong, stable and secure Indo Pacific region.
That is why Australia is a trusted partner and a long-term partner; because our commitment is based on beliefs and values that have long been recognised in this region.
It is the guiding principle for our foreign and trade policy.
No one country, no one economy can prosper without engaging with others.
That is the lesson of the past half-century that has delivered so much to the people who live in our region.
It is the lesson governments and the private sector must continue to use to guide us in the years ahead and to make the case, to make the case that this is the right way to go forward.
To make that case in our communities, in our constituencies, in our boardrooms, whatever table we’re sitting around, the kitchen table or anything else, we need to make the case that trade is the right way forward to lift people out of poverty, to provide stability and peace in our region and to lift living standards.
t’s great to be in Darwin, a tropical city with its own unique rhythm and feel.
I’m especially pleased to be doing a number of things today.
This morning I signed the Darwin City Deal with the Chief Minister and the Lord Mayor.
I know many of you have been waiting keenly for this day, especially Senator Nigel Scullion and Gary Higgins who have been champions of the cause.
This City Deal will unlock investment in Darwin, grow the population, and support greater business activity.
And very soon I will have the pleasure of welcoming the Japanese Prime Minister His Excellency Mr Shinzo Abe to Darwin, along with Mrs Abe.
This will involve marking with Prime Minister Abe the fruition of the biggest ever investment by Japan in Australia – the Ichthys LNG project here in Darwin, the benefits of which will flow for many years to come.
Benefits that will further complement our economic plan for Australia where this week we again saw clear evidence that this economic plan is working.
We witnessed yet another strong employment number with 32,800 more jobs in the month of October, with full-time jobs in Australia increasing by 42,300.
Since our Government came to office just over 5 years ago, nearly 1.
2 million jobs have been created.
At 5 per cent, the unemployment rate is the lowest since April 2012.
When we came to Government, the NT unemployment rate was 5.
2 per cent – it’s now down to 4.
6 per cent.
Nationally, we’re also seeing a recovery of business investment off the back of increased business confidence.
And pleasingly, we are seeing a pick-up in wages growth across the country.
But we are not complacent.
We recognise that not everyone is feeling the benefits of a strong economy, including here in the Territory.
That’s why we have a plan for an even stronger economy that delivers for all parts of Australia.
So as a country and as a society, we grow together – not grow apart.
That’s my goal for Darwin.
That’s my aspiration for the Territory.
That’s our Government’s plan for Australia.
Our economic plan has several inter-connected threads.
Let me highlight just some of them:
Lower tax for individuals and small and medium-sized business owners like many of you in this room
Lower electricity prices so energy customers get a better deal from the big electricity companies
The largest integrated infrastructure plan in Australia’s history - $75 billion of investment over 10 years
A broad-based industry strategy that recognises traditional strengths such as resources and agriculture, but also looks to develop areas of growth in services, the defence industry, medical industry and science and technology
A trade strategy that continues to break down barriers for Australian exports, especially here in the Asian region.
That’s a big part of what I have been doing this week and what I will continue to be doing as I head to APEC in PNG tomorrow.
A bold new agenda for small business growth, including major announcements this week by the Treasurer on small business finance and cutting red tape.
All the while within a framework of fiscal responsibility – a Government swinging the Budget back to balance so we live within our means and reduce our debt over time and deliver the essential services Australians rely on.
Let me say a bit more about small and family businesses.
We’re bringing forward small business tax cuts by five years.
Small and medium-sized businesses with a turnover less than $50 million – thousands of them here in the Territory – will pay a tax rate of just 25 per cent in 2021-22 rather than from 2026-27 as planned.
Similar timing changes will apply to the roll-out of the 16 per cent tax discount for unincorporated businesses.
3.
3 million small and medium sized businesses across the nation, employing around 7 million Australians, will reap the benefits.
This includes the more than 19,000 businesses in the Territory who employ over 58,000 Territorians.
At the same time, we’ve extended the Government’s $20,000 instant asset write-off through to 30 June 2019.
Some 350,000 small businesses claimed the instant asset write-off in 2016-17.
It’s a great opportunity to reinvest in your business by replacing or upgrading an asset.
But we have much bigger plans to turn small businesses into bigger businesses beginning with small business finance.
In my time as Treasurer, I became very concerned about the ability of small business to secure access to competitive finance – relative to large businesses.
If small business can’t access finance at reasonable terms they can’t grow.
Our Government has listened, recognised this problem and now we have acted.
This week the Treasurer announced a $2 billion Securitisation Fund to help businesses better access the loans they need to grow.
The fund will help to provide an additional source of funding for smaller banks and non-bank lenders who, in turn, will be able to lend to small businesses at more competitive terms.
It will be administered by the Australian Office of Financial Management – providing a long overdue boost to liquidity and competition in the small business lending market.
The Government is also working with financial institutions (including APRA and the major banks) on establishing an Australian Business Growth Fund that would provide longer term equity funding to small businesses.
This would be modelled on similar funds that have been operating in the UK and Canada where this issue of access to small business finance has been highlighted as well.
We’re reducing red tape and the regulatory burden on small business.
All up, the Government has cut $6 billion in Commonwealth red tape, which is reducing the regulatory burden on small businesses.
We’ve streamlined GST reporting for small businesses by simplifying the BAS.
When fully implemented, this is estimated to save each small business, on average, $590 per year.
Today we have announced we’re going to reduce the reporting burden for small and medium businesses by doubling ASIC financial reporting thresholds that have become outdated.
Around 2,200 companies will no longer be required to comply with financial reporting and audit requirements.
This is estimated to reduce regulatory costs by $81.
3 million annually.
Complementing plans for business, our City Deal will unlock investment in Darwin, grow the population, and support greater business activity.
Darwin will get a new Education and Civic Precinct in Cavenagh Street.
Its centrepiece will be a new city campus for Charles Darwin University, attracting more students here – 1,100 more.
Those students are going to flow into the centre of the city to study, live and work.
And there’ll be hundreds of university staff in that consumer mix too.
International students spend around $500 a week on living expenses, while hosting visits from their friends and family too.
That’s going to be a new source of strength to the local economy.
Analysis by Deloitte Access Economics has found that the new city campus could increase economic output in the Darwin region by more than $250 million over the next fifteen years.
The City Deal will revitalise the look and feel of Darwin.
More green space.
More landscaping.
It will attract new visitors, residents, students and businesses, improving the experience for all and help ensure more stay for the long-term.
It provides business the confidence it needs for the future.
With an agreed 10-year plan, between all levels of government, to grow and transform Darwin, we’re sending a strong signal to today’s business community and tomorrow’s investors.
There’s much more to the City Deal and I encourage you to examine the detail.
Now of course, the NT is bigger and broader than Darwin.
My Government is taking steps to adapt the successful City Deals model for regional development.
Just last weekend, I wrote to the Chief Minister to formally invite him to partner in a Regional Deal for the Barkly Region.
Discussions were well underway in the lead-up to that invitation – the Deputy Prime Minister Michael McCormack, and the Minister for Indigenous Affairs Nigel Scullion, had met with the Barkly Regional Council and leaders of the Barkly Aboriginal community.
We have begun a formal process.
That’s an important step.
Ultimately, the community will determine the specifics of this deal.
Of course, our City Deals build on a larger pipeline of infrastructure investment in the Territory.
Since 2013-14, the Government has committed $1.
5 billion to fund infrastructure projects in the Territory.
I mentioned briefly at the outset as part of the Government’s economic plan our defence industry strategy.
The NT is vitally important to the Australian Defence Force and the Government is continuing to invest strongly in capability, personnel and facilities in the Territory.
More than 5,000 serve in our defence forces in and around Darwin.
Under the umbrella of the Defence White Paper, we are investing $200 billion investment in defence capability and around $8 billion in Defence infrastructure projects over the next decade.
Under our Local Industry Capability Plan we’ll be working to ensure local Territory businesses and tradies get their share of work on important defence projects.
I know many of the Chamber’s members are in tourism.
Of course, Kakadu is one of the icons of Australian tourism.
I want Kakadu tourism to keep delivering for the Territory.
I want to see people from all around the world continuing to enjoy the beautiful gorge and waterfalls of our largest national park.
Our Government is working with the Territory Government on how best to manage and continue investing in Kakadu so we continue to tap into its amazing tourism potential.
We’re also working with the Territory Government and Traditional Owners to ensure the future of Jabiru is settled as soon as possible, to provide some certainty there.
Jabiru is already a major service centre for Kakadu and the surrounding region, and although the mine is closing, there’s certainly a lot of potential for a future built on tourism.
Our Government’s commitment to the Territory can be seen too in the changes we have made to GST distribution.
We know the mining boom created real volatility in the GST distribution.
So we’ve legislated a fairer and more sustainable GST deal for everyone.
It’s now law.
I promised that back in July as Treasurer and it’s now delivered.
In addition to the already paid extra $260 million, under our new legislated changes, the NT is forecast to be $258 million better off over the next eight years.
That includes $69 million in top-up payments over the first three years.
We’re also changing the formula to address this issue in the longer term.
It’ll be the biggest change to the GST since it was introduced and this is why we took our time to get it right.
Our GST plan is about ensuring your fair share, so that the services you rely on – schools, hospitals and law enforcement, as well as infrastructure and other important projects – are delivered.
This is crucial to the ongoing strength of the Northern Territory and its economy.
In April 2018, the Commonwealth announced it would invest $550 million over five years in housing for NT remote communities.
The NT Government has agreed to match this funding as part of a new National Partnership Agreement.
Our negotiations are focussing on addressing overcrowding, providing transparency about how money is spent, a decision-making role for land councils and ensuring works are delivered by local Indigenous Territorians and businesses.
We expect to finalise the agreement before the end of the year.
And all of this is being done without increasing your taxes.
On what you earn, on your investment, on your business, your retirement savings, housing – 16,000 Territorians negatively gear rental property.
So Ladies and Gentlemen, I come back to where I started.
All of these investments in the future can only be made if you have a plan for a strong economy.
I strongly believe that the next election will be fought over those defining issues of who can manage the economy best and who can keep Australians safe and protect our sovereignty.
We do recognise that not everyone is feeling the benefits of a strong economy, including here in the Territory.
The nature of the Territories economy means you are often called on to buckle down through periods of uncertainty.
It can be a grind, especially if you are running a small business.
We get that.
That’s why everything we do as a government is geared towards strengthening our economy and ensuring all Australians can share in the benefits of a strong economy.
Silence.
At last, silence.
A silence from that day to this that beckons a prayer for a dawn of peace, and a lasting peace.
On this day a century ago, as citizens across the Allied nations celebrated the end of war, Australia’s official war correspondent, Charles Bean, chose to mark the Armistice solemnly.
Returning to Fromelles in northern France where two years earlier Australian soldiers had fought their first major action on the Western Front, Bean walked in silence over the trampled battlefield.
“We found the old No-Man’s-Land simply full of our dead,” he wrote.
“The skulls and bones and torn uniforms were lying about everywhere.”
On that day, perhaps Bean reflected on the unfulfilled dreams of the almost 2,000 Australians who had fallen at Fromelles in a single day, or the suffering of the more than 3,000 who had been wounded.
Perhaps he thought of the tens of thousands of our war dead lying on the steep hills of Gallipoli, or on the blood-soaked fields of Flanders, and  the searing deserts of the East.
Perhaps he dwelt on the grief of families who would never again embrace loved ones, or on the loss to communities across the nation of a generation that had made victory possible.
As we commemorate the centenary of the Armistice and cast our minds back over the years, we know too well the deep scars of war and long to prevent them from touching an Australian soul.
Our human predisposition, our Australian predisposition, is for peace.
It is to be in accord with family, friends, neighbours, community.
To love, to live.
That’s why war is always a failure of our humanity.
Yet we know there are times when even the most peaceful of men and women are called upon to defend the beliefs they live by, and there have been too many such times over the course of the past century.
This is not to say that our reflections on those conflicts must be unquestioning.
But the sacrifice demands that we reflect, ponder, and learn from every conflict because that’s what free societies like Australia do — to learn from the past so that we can better navigate the changing currents of our own times, for our own children and for the next generations.
Over this past century, I believe the tenor of our conflicts has tended towards upholding the highest ideals of humankind – to preserve freedom, to safeguard democracy, to stand against tyranny.
And we have done so at a great cost.
It is easy from the vantage point of a century to lose sight of the sacrifices made in our name.
Much harder to cross the span of generations and put ourselves in the boots of someone landing at ANZAC Cove, or charging into Beersheba, or struggling against the rattle of death on Flanders Fields.
Those who fought in the Great War had the same and normal flaws and frailties of any other Australian of any other generation.
Yet their selflessness at the darkest of times has set them apart for eternity in our nation’s consciousness.
Andrew Gillison, a chaplain, heard cries coming from No Man’s Land while in a trench at Gallipoli.
Despite having been warned about the snipers, he tried to crawl out to rescue the wounded soldier, calling.
He did know what the risk was, but he did know what it was to do the right thing, and he lost his life for it.
Alice Chisholm, a mother of five, sailed to Egypt to be near her son who had been wounded.
She stayed to set up food canteens and shelters for Allied troops serving in the Middle East, and after the war she supported our diggers by establishing a Returned Soldiers’ Club in Goulburn.
William Rawlings, a horse trainer from near Warrnambool, risked his life to clear a path for his fellow infantrymen during an attack at Morlancourt on the Western Front.
He was one of a thousand Indigenous Australians who volunteered when their country did not properly recognise them or their people, and he would die just a few months before the Armistice.
They saw our country not just for what was then but what they dreamed it would become.
We often say that men and women like this were fearless; but I actually don’t believe that.
Because bravery is not the absence of fear.
It is the choice to commit to a purpose greater than your fear.
That is the moment when fear is conquered.
They feared greatly but acted nonetheless, and it is this that embodies our highest aspirations as a nation and as people – to live for others even when to do so is unimaginably hard and the cost extreme.
Tragically, the hardships continued even for those who rode out the storms of war.
Many suffered the physical marks of battle; yet more, the deep emotional scars of memory.
Thousands of our servicemen and women would die from injury as well as despair within a decade of coming home.
Their struggles were as much an act of patriotism and love of our country as their enlisted service, and that is true to this day for those who wrestle daily with these memories.
Despite hopes that it would usher in a lasting peace, the Great War was sadly not the war to end all wars.
By the time this memorial here to the Great War as was originally proposed was opened, another war was upon us.
The Australian original ANZACs who left our shores for Gallipoli have been followed by those who fought in the jungles of Kokoda, and struggled in the mud of Long Tan, and battled in the dust of Uruzgan, and risked their lives in the skies over Germany and in the waters of the Mediterranean and the Pacific.
To all who have served our nation in wars, in conflicts and peacekeeping operations, to those of you who serve to this day here or all around the world, we owe you a debt of gratitude as a nation and as individual Australians.
Through it all, we can’t avert our gaze from citizen-soldiers of the First World War though, who defined so much of who we are as a people today.
They believed in country over self.
They believed in each other, when all seemed lost.
They respected the chain of command, but it was their character that drove their actions, as it is today.
It’s important for me to come here today and make this presentation which I could have done to a lecture theatre down in the southern states or do it in Parliament House or somewhere like that but I thought it was important to come and make this presentation here today to the men and women who I will be asking and our Government will be asking to be part of the fulfilment of the plans that I am setting out today for our government and our nation.
It is great to be here at Lavarack Barracks.
Many Australian Prime Ministers have visited these Barracks and rightly so.
The first though was Harold Holt, who came to open them in 1966.
At the opening he let everyone in on a secret, that was the Army didn’t want the Barracks in Townsville.
They wanted the new barracks to be on the Mornington Peninsula in Victoria.
They wanted it to be close to the existing Defence infrastructure.
Apparently that was a cheaper exercise as well.
But Harold Holt had a very different view.
He convinced the Cabinet to actually override the Army’s recommendation.
He said at the opening of these Barracks: “if this continent is to be held secure, if we are to develop its potentialities he said, then we must press on vigorously with northern development”.
And that argument still holds as fresh today, which is why I’m delighted to be back in Townsville -- backing Townsville, backing Lavarack.
And supporting our defence forces and on coming to office a little over five years ago, our Government committed to increasing the Defence budget to 2 per cent of Australia’s GDP within ten years of coming to office.
We will achieve that in 2020-21, three years ahead of schedule.
That shows you the seriousness of our Government’s commitment to the capability of our defence forces and our serving men and women.
The long-term funding commitment is critical to executing the Government’s plans for Defence, and ensures that defence strategy, capability and resources are fully aligned.
Defence must have confidence in its funding so it can develop and implement long-term plans.
Australian defence industry also needs funding certainty to confidently invest in the infrastructure, skills and capability so that it can play its part as a fundamental input to defence capability.
They are part of the Defence team.
It's because of these long-term commitments that our Government can invest in programs like LAND 400 Phase 2, which I know is particularly popular up here, which will deliver 211 world-class Combat Reconnaissance Vehicles for the Australian Army.
These world-class vehicles will be manufactured and delivered by up to 1,450 Australian workers, using Australian steel, right here in Queensland.
But the beauty of our commitment to Defence capability is that these benefits actually flow right across the country.
The supply chain for these new vehicles will reach right across the country – with up to 40 companies expected to be involved.
Indeed right here in North Queensland, there are small to medium sized companies who will have the opportunity to secure work on this  $5.
2 billion project.
Now of course, our Defence capability plans do not end there – from new frigates and patrol vessels, to the Joint Strike Fighter – all of these platforms draw on small and medium sized enterprises from right across the nation.
And ladies and gentlemen I am here to day to honour the service of the men and women of these Barracks, your pledge to service our nation in times of war and peace is no idle one.
3rd Brigade has acted on that pledge.
In Iraq and Afghanistan and your role in the Philippines is vitally important.
This year 3rd Brigade has deployed 800 members in some eight countries.
From engineering support to amphibious landing training and command and leadership mentoring.
And much of your efforts are in your own neighbourhood.
That’s our defence industry plan in action – creating the world’s best capability while investing in Australian industrial capability and know-how and securing highly-skilled and paid Australian jobs across the nation.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I am here today to honour the service of the men and women of these Barracks.
Your pledge to serve our nation, in times of war and peace, is no idle one.
3 Brigade has acted on that pledge – in Iraq and Afghanistan.
And your role in the Philippines is vitally important.
This year 3 Brigade has deployed 800 members in some eight countries.
From engineering support, to amphibious landing training and command and leadership mentoring - and much of your efforts are in our own neighbourhood, in your neighbourhood, the Pacific – a long way from the Mornington Peninsula!
As lovely as the Mornington Peninsula is.
You have done tremendous work with two of our biggest military partners in our region, Papua New Guinea and Fiji.
Their forces can now take on bigger responsibilities, working hand in glove with the ADF towards regional stability and security.
That would also build on the ADF’s tremendous humanitarian response work in the region.
Australia’s national security and that of the Pacific they are intertwined - as the 2017 Foreign Policy White Paper made clear, when it identified the Pacific as one of Australia’s highest foreign policy priorities.
My Government, the Government that I have the privilege to lead is returning the Pacific to where it should be – front and centre of Australia’s strategic outlook, our foreign policy, our personal connections, including at the highest levels of government.
This is our patch.
This is our part of the world.
This is where we have special responsibilities.
We always have, we always will.
We have their back, and they have ours.
We are more than partners by choice.
We are connected as members of a Pacific family.
It’s why the first leaders I hosted in Australia as Prime Minister have been from Solomon Islands, Fiji and Papua New Guinea.
It’s time to open, I believe a new chapter in relations with our Pacific family.
One based on respect, equality and openness.
A relationship for its own sake, because it’s right.
Because it’s who we are.
Last week in Sydney, I set out the foundational beliefs and values that guide our Government’s engagement with the world and to ensure we remain a prosperous, secure and united nation.
In Queensland - our gateway to the Pacific - I want to outline in more detail our ‘step-up’ now in the Pacific and why we are taking our engagement to a new level.
And I wanted to do it here in Lavarack because it is with you who are charged, along with all our servicemen and women to put our plan into action.
Australia has an abiding interest in the Southwest Pacific that is secure strategically, stable economically and sovereign politically.
This is not just our region, or our neighbourhood.
This is our home.
It’s where Australia can make the biggest difference in world affairs.
A strong, stable region keeps us more secure and enables our economies to grow and for our peoples to prosper.
While we have natural advantages in terms of history, proximity and shared values, Australia cannot take its influence in the Southwest Pacific for granted.
And sadly I think too often we have.
Notwithstanding we build from strong foundations our Government has refocused more of our aid contribution to the region.
We remain the largest aid donor to the Pacific.
We maintain high standards of governance while aligning our assistance with the practical priorities of Pacific Island countries.
The Pacific Labour Scheme is a genuine win-win partnership.
It helps strengthen our economies.
It will give Australian farmers and businesses from aged care providers to tourism operators critical staff to run at full capacity, and gives Pacific workers the chance to earn higher incomes, gain skills and secure opportunities for their own families at home.
The Seasonal Worker Programme gives our fruit growers and crop farmers the workers they need at their busiest times of the year.
Since 2012, the Seasonal Worker Programme has provided an extra $144 million in income for families and villages in the Pacific and Timor-Leste.
That’s life-changing for them, absolutely life changing and a massive help for our farmers as well.
Pacific labour mobility is one of the most important solutions for tackling workforce shortages, right now and into the future.
Australia is committed to building on those labour mobility opportunities for Pacific countries and ensuring that Pacific countries take priority.
Pacific labour to Australia is growing and we want to see this growth continue - so we are prioritising the expansion of Pacific labour mobility to help fill critical workforce shortages, where no Australian is available.
And it is always our first priority to ensure that Australians are doing these jobs.
We will work closely with industry and Pacific governments to ensure the quality of both the Pacific Labour Scheme and its integrity and the Seasonal Worker Programme.
There are some 1,500 Pacific island students studying at Australian universities on scholarships, gaining the knowledge and skills needed to create opportunities in their home countries.
They’re matched by nearly two-and-a-half-thousand young Australians who have studied in the Pacific since 2014 as part of the New Colombo Plan that was pioneered and initiated by the former Foreign Minister, Julie Bishop and I commend her for that initiative.
As well, thousands of young Pacific islanders have received vocational education through the Australia Pacific Training Coalition, giving them Australian-standard qualifications.
We’re working with PNG and the Solomon Islands to install a high-speed undersea internet cable so their people can take advantage of the digital era and the digital economy.
We’re moving towards ratifying the PACER-Plus regional trade agreement to open up new markets and opportunities for ourselves and our Pacific neighbours and partners.
It’s a very solid base, but of course, economic development relies on security and stability.
Under the “Boe” Pacific Regional Security Declaration, we and our Pacific partners have committed to work more closely to keep our countries safe, secure and more prosperous.
The Pacific Fusion Centre, announced at the Pacific Islands Forum, will build on existing security architecture, including the Pacific Transnational Crime Coordination Centre in Apia, and Forum Fisheries Agency Regional Fisheries Surveillance Centre in Honiara.
We are also working to deliver national security and law enforcement training in the Pacific at the executive middle management level through an Australia Pacific Security College.
Under our Pacific Maritime Security Programme we are delivering bigger and more capable patrol boats and aerial surveillance, and sharing more information to tackle drug trafficking, people smuggling and illegal fishing in the Pacific which is robbing Pacific Islanders of their livelihoods.
With Fiji, it’s turning the Blackrock Peacekeeping Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief Camp into a regional hub for police and peacekeeping training and pre-deployment preparation.
With Solomon Islands, it’s a bilateral security agreement, building on the hard work of RAMSI.
With Vanuatu, it’s a boost to law enforcement assistance as we negotiate a new bilateral security agreement.
And last week, I signed an agreement with PNG Prime Minister Peter O’Neill to elevate our relationship with an annual leaders’ dialogue.
We’re cooperating to develop the PNG Defence Force’s Lombrum Naval Base which I’ve visited on many occasions on Manus Island to increase the inter-operability between our defence forces and our ability to tackle challenges like transnational crime.
It will mean more Australian ships can visit PNG.
And after APEC in Port Moresby where I will be shortly, our police will continue the close relationship and cooperation they’ve built in the lead-up to that important meeting.
So the strategic architecture of our Pacific ‘step-up’ is taking shape, it’s in place.
It is part of a larger vision of Australia as a force for good in the Pacific, working with others to ensure our region is secure, stable and sovereign.
We seek cooperation with others -- New Zealand, the United States, Japan, China, France and the UK all active in the region to ensure our engagement supports common goals.
Let me turn now to some of the other steps that I am announcing we are taking today, practical measures that we believe will make a difference.
The ADF already plays a pivotal role across a wide canvas, from traditional military engagement with counterparts, to humanitarian and disaster relief, to Operation Render Safe, where we assist in safely disposing of World War Two explosive remnants.
As part of our commitment to the Pacific, the ADF will play an even greater role, working with our partners on training, on capacity building, on exercises, on building interoperability to respond together to the security challenges we face.
To help achieve this, we will establish an enduring rotational ADF Pacific Mobile Training Team, which will be based in Australia, and will travel in the Pacific when invited to undertake training and engagement with other forces.
This will see ADF members like yourselves working more with regional partners in areas such as humanitarian and disaster response, peacekeeping, infantry skills, engineering and logistics and planning.
The Government will also put in place arrangements to ensure that Australia has a dedicated vessel to deliver our support to our partners in the Pacific.
Its duties will include humanitarian assistance and response.
The Royal Australian Navy will also undertake more deployments to the Pacific so that they can conduct maritime training exercises with our neighbours.
This will enable them to take advantage of the new Guardian Class Patrol Boats we are gifting to them, to support regional security.
We are also strengthening our links with Pacific police forces.
A new Pacific facility at the Australian Institute of Police Management will help train the next generation of police leadership in the Pacific.
Australian and Pacific police have a long history of working closely together and the new Institute will bring together police leaders from across the Pacific for professional, leadership and executive development opportunities.
We will deepen our already strong people-to-people links with Pacific security forces.
We will establish annual meetings of defence and police and border security chiefs and deepen our collaborative efforts.
We will establish a security alumni network to maintain connections and deepen relationships with the many emerging and senior police, and the civilian and military leaders who have participated in the Defence Cooperation Program over decades.
Harvesting their experience learning from the experience, passing on the legacy of their experience.
We’re also expanding our diplomatic footprint.
Our diplomatic network is already larger than any other country in the Pacific as it should be and we are going to expand it.
Today I announce that we intend to open diplomatic missions in Palau, the Marshall Islands, French Polynesia, Niue and the Cook Islands.
This will mean Australia is represented in every member country of the Pacific Islands Forum.
Of course, it’s not just about the number of diplomatic posts; it’s about the people we send there.
And those working on the Pacific at home.
The Foreign Minister and I have made it clear that we want our best and brightest, our young and experienced diplomats alike, working in and on the Pacific.
We must also deepen our commitment to economic engagement in a way that addresses the specific challenges of the Pacific.
The Pacific region is estimated to need US$3.
1 billion in investment per year to 2030.
So today I’m pleased to announce two major new initiatives that will help address the infrastructure needs of the Pacific region.
The first is the creation of an Australian Infrastructure Financing Facility for the Pacific (AIFFP).
This $2 billion infrastructure initiative will significantly boost Australia’s support for infrastructure development in Pacific countries and Timor Leste.
It will use grant funding combined with long term loans to support high priority infrastructure development.
This will also enable these projects to leverage broader support.
It will invest in essential infrastructure such as telecommunications, energy, transport, water and will stretch our aid dollars even further.
The second major announcement I’m making today is the Government will ask Parliament to give Efic, Australia’s export financing agency, an extra $1 billion in callable capital and a new more flexible infrastructure financing power to support investments in the region which have broad national benefit for Australia.
It’s in our interest that’s why we need to do it.
These new measures will enhance Efic’s ability to support Australian SMEs to be active in their region.
Working with the support and aid that we are putting into the region.
Private capital, entrepreneurialism, open markets are crucial to our mutual prosperity.
These are our beliefs, these are values, they are shared with the Pacific and we stand with those who share our beliefs and values.
It’s my genuine ambition for this work on infrastructure to be a bipartisan endeavour, as indeed should our wider engagement be in the Pacific.
This is something I hope we can achieve together, in our national interest and that of our neighbours.
Not long ago the former Foreign Minister, Julie Bishop, led her annual bipartisan delegation to the Pacific.
These visits built on the cross-party visits to the Pacific initiated by Alexander and I want to see more such delegations of politicians and journalists deepening ties with our neighbours.
Our personal ties extend deeply into rituals, pastimes and shared obsessions like sport.
You all know that when you would have been up in the region, PNG in particular and other places.
Following the success of this year’s Prime Ministers Men’s and Women’s XIII games against their PNG counterparts which was a topic of discussion when I got in touch with Peter O’Neill recently when we played the Kumuls and the Orchids – a new sports programme will strengthen sporting pathways between the Pacific and Australia.
I’ve been speaking to Free-TV Australia and the commercial TV networks about how we get more of our Australian content into the region.
Our pacific family switching on to the same stories, news, drama and sports we are watching at home.
What better way of staying connected than through the people, the lifestyle and the every-day experiences we are lucky enough to enjoy.
That’s why I am pleased to announce that the Government will be working with our commercial media operators to ensure our friends in the Pacific have access to more quality Australian content on television  and other platforms.
This will include things like lifestyle programs, news, current affairs, children’s content, drama and sports potentially.
This is an initial step towards providing more Australian content that is highly valued by the Pacific community.
Just the other day, Prime Minister O’Neill reminded me that they have a holiday for Melbourne Cup Day as well.
And that it’s very hard to find anyone at work in Moresby the day after a State of Origin game.
These are small reminders of just how much we have in common and the heritage we share, the lives we share, the values we share.
You might ask how we’re going to pay for all of this.
The answer is simple.
We are doing it from within budget.
We have undertaken a rigorous prioritisation of our foreign policy and aid and defence and police strategies and plans to make the Pacific a priority.
Government is all about making choices, it’s about setting priorities, it’s about focussing on the things that you believe are most important and that’s what we have done as a Government.
Not by running up a big bill but by making choices to make a priority of the Pacific, whether it’s in our aid program or elsewhere.
Nothing proves the strength of our people partnership more than the massive welcome the Duke and Duchess of Sussex received in Tonga and Fiji the other week just like they did in Dubbo and Sydney and Fraser Island.
But our connections go so far beyond our shared Commonwealth membership.
We support a fantastic Australian volunteers program, one that translates into thousands of stories of people changing lives.
I recently heard about a young bloke called Michael Nunan.
Michael was a volunteer to Solomon Islands and spent two years as a pharmacist there.
He discovered that poor communication meant local health clinics couldn’t do simple things like let him know what supplies and medicines were that they needed, or whether they needed training.
So, with some support from DFAT’s Innovation Exchange, he developed an online tool that’s now being used in six countries to provide timely and reliable data about health clinics and medicine stocks.
His tool, that he called it “Tupaia” now Tupaia was on Captain Cook’s legendary voyages as they particularly went around New Zealand and when they first came to Australia, in a little part I know pretty well in Kurnell in Sydney.
He named it after Tupaia because it’s all about communication, Tupaia was a translator or intended to be as he had served with the Polynesian peoples.
And this has made a huge difference this translation tool, this communications tool to healthcare in small villages
Over the next five years, another 5000 people like Michael will volunteer in 26 different countries, and the difference they make will be life changing and it will be immeasurable.
Let me tell you about the community in Mundubbera in Queensland.
After Cyclone Gita hit Tonga earlier this year, the local community stepped up to send help.
It was a sign of the same community spirit that prompted Tongan seasonal workers to be among the first to help evacuate people and property when the Burnett River flooded in 2013 and a third of the town was underwater.
The local deputy mayor has recently visited Tonga to donate relief supplies.
What goes around is coming around.
We’ve got their back, they’ve got ours.
These stories are happening right across Australia and in the Pacific.
It’s about who we are and what we do.
It’s what I meant when I talk about family.
Whanau as they call it in Polynesian and Maori.
They are the real ties that bind us.
On sports fields and in churches, in schools and universities and between our defence and our police forces.
So in conclusion let me say this for all these great stories of human connection, our relationships with our Pacific friends need to be nurtured and valued.
And if our standing and influence in the Pacific is to grow, our commitment must be genuine, authentic and enduring.
The world is changing, it’s true and we need to ensure that our Pacific partnerships get stronger with time, that we never take them for granted, that we are a reliable and steady member of the family.
I want to see a new level of respect, familiarity and appreciation between us.
Where our shared interests sit alongside shared values.
That’s not to say we will always agree.
But that’s not the true test of friendship or family.
Tell me a family that always agrees.
The real test is showing respect, love, commitment, and knowing that together we can make our region and all of our communities even stronger.
Let me say my final words to 3 Brigade.
I want to thank you for two things, well three you’ve been standing for a little while, thank you.
But on two things, you are known throughout the ADF and government for the way you look after each other when wounded.
Please keep doing what you are doing.
“Mates helping mates”.
That’s what it means to be Australian.
And one of our core values of the Defence Forces and Australian Army.
Second, for most of Australia, summer-time is the time to kickback – cicadas, cricket, the beach – long days, relaxing nights, good times.
Times to remember, times that matter.
But it’s wet season up here again, and you are always ready for the people of North Queensland in particular.
You were the backbone of the clean-up after Cyclone Debbie.
I want to thank you for the sacrifices you make and always being at the ready to help your fellow Australians and to go where ever your need is required, where your service is required.
It’s been an honour to be amongst you once again here today.
It is one of the great privileges of being a Prime Minister to be able to thank Australian Service Men and Women whether it’s here at 3rd Brigade or anywhere else around this country or anywhere around the world for their tremendous service.
We deeply respect it, we deeply thank you for it and we thank your families and friends for the sacrifices they make to enable you to serve and do the job that you love.
It’s an honour to be with you here today you are part of a noble tradition -- here at the Barracks, in the Pacific and beyond.
They laughed, they smoked, they told stories, they wept, they were as earthy as the land in which they were born from.
And though it was hard to see during the fog of war and even harder to appreciate the scale of their sacrifice, they nevertheless changed the world, together.
As Charles Bean did one hundred years ago, today we solemnly commemorate the Armistice.
In silence, a silence that beckons and prays for peace, we honour the 102,000 Australians who have lost their lives in war for us.
For our tomorrows, they gave their today.
In silence, we commit ourselves to standing by those who have returned home.
In silence, we honour the great leadership of General Monash.
And in silence at the hour when war subsided, we resolve to sustain the peace today and beyond.
So that when the bugle calls, we will in the words of our great Australian poet:
“Stand four-square to the tempest, 
whatever the battering hail,
No foe shall gather our harvest,
Or sit on our stockyard rail”.
Lest we forget.
It’s very important we’re all here today, we’re here as guests of others, we’re here in our own right, bringing tables.
It’s a generous community that I grew up in here in Sydney.
It’s great to see so many of you here being generous here today.
But when you hear these stories, there’s only one thing we can respond in doing and that is fill this out.
And I’ll make sure we’re going to keep filling them out from the Commonwealth Government’s point of view as well and I want to talk a bit more about that today.
It’s good to be here with John and John I worked together some time ago.
And he used to speak, and he’ll remember this, about being ‘strong and compassionate’ and I’ve thought a lot about that as the years have passed.
It does sort of reflect the tension in public life.
The need for strength, but also the need to be compassionate.
And in the opportunity to work together with Lifeline I think we can do both.
And that’s certainly what John has been able to do and I want to thank him for his great service.
Not only in chairing Lifeline but I think in being an advocate and being someone who demystifies and destigmatizes the issues of mental health in Australia.
And so congratulations John.
Thanks you for your service John.
And Lucy is great, Lucy does a great job as we know.
She does a terrific job as Chair of Australia’s Mental Health Commission and we really thank you for the work you do there.
And I was thinking of Lifeline only recently.
We were announcing some funding for some support down at a spot we’re all pretty familiar with, down there near the Watson’s Bay Hotel, over near the cliff.
And we were making some announcements there about how we were doing improvements to lighting and those sort of things that has been part of the programme of that area to make that less of a hot spot.
And what it reminded me of was, it was a lonely place.
And people are in lonely places and they can be in dark places.
But what we have an opportunity to do through organisations like Lifeline is that we can bring light to them and it’s not just light down at the gap.
These places can be offices, they can be classrooms, they can be kitchens, they can be bedrooms, they can be shop floors, and they can even be hotel ballrooms here today.
What might seem full of light to all the rest us can be dark, it can be lonely, it can feel windswept, it can feel isolated and disconnected.
And what we’re trying to do is bring light to that.
An acknowledgment to those situations people find themselves in.
And Julian Leeser who is here today and other colleagues who are here today and I welcome them as well as they’ve already been acknowledged today.
Julian and I were talking about the issue of suicide.
Julian is one of the great champions of suicide prevention in our national Parliament.
Just like Jason and Paul and others who are here.
And it doesn’t matter which side of politics you are on.
When Julian speaks about these issues, people stop and they listen, and so they should.
Because as you know Julian lost his father to suicide – and we were talking about trying to see the signs of depression, the sadness and distress in others and being alert to it.
Because often we’re not.
And one of the stories Julian will tell you about it is how he wished he had been able to interpret more of what those signs are.
And it’s our responsiveness to this that gives us an opportunity to intervene, to step in, R U OK Day is another great initiative that was started by a mate of mine I went to school with and who we lost some years ago.
Not to mental illness, actually to another illness.
But this stop and observe each other I think is important, and that’s what we’re all here doing today.
It can be very human to miss these signs.
It can be very human to try and mask the signs that you’re in fact feeling.
And so picking up on these things is very important.
For people in distress in Australia, Lifeline is one of these disruptors that can actually come in and intervene in these moments.
It can be that little voice to someone in distress that says “call Lifeline” and they see it, as John said, every other day at the end of an article somewhere.
It disrupts, it makes a difference.
Or it could just be the number that you see elsewhere.
For tens of thousands of people, countless Australians, it has already been an important disruptor for their own battle with mental illness or of their family or friends.
I particularly want to acknowledge today, as I know John would also, all the counsellors who are making this difference every single day – if you have been or are a Lifeline counsellor I’d like you stand in your seats right now if you’re here because we all owe you a great debt of thanks and I want to acknowledge you in this room today.
If there are any counsellors here, we want to say thanks.
We don’t know and we’ll never know who these counsellors have helped.
It could have been one of our siblings, or one of your children, it could have been your football or netball coach or that that of your kids’ coach, it could be your kid’s school teacher, it could be your neighbour, it could be your parent or it could even be your local member of Parliament, and it could have even been you at some point in the future.
And yes, Lifeline does so many other things that supplement their mighty phone counselling service – and I also acknowledge that good work too.
But there is one call we should all remember.
It took place in fifty-five years ago in 1963.
It was a time when they had rotary dial telephones, timed STD calls and phone boxes on street corners.
And Reverend Alan Walker, took a call at his Beacon Hill home.
It was from a man named Roy.
He got Reverend Walker’s number out of the phone book, we all remember what they were.
Some of us do.
Roy was lonely, distressed and struggling under a weight of debt and they arranged to meet.
But before the meeting took place, Roy took his own life.
Now Reverend Walker was a man of deep faith.
He understood the admonition that faith without deeds is dead.
And he turned his faith into action.
He turned his faith into real deeds.
And along with a small band of volunteers established Lifeline as an expression of his deep faith.
Because he knew there were thousands of Roys in the country.
From its inception, Lifeline understood that, at times, we all need a helping hand.
And there is nothing wrong in asking for help.
Now my dad was a police officer, so was my uncle – and you didn’t think or inquire about the emotional toll of a difficult job.
The same is true for nurses, paramedics, firefighters, ambulance officers, and we thank them for the wonderful job they do.
They were just expected to deal with it.
Just like returning veterans.
Just like our Vietnam vets, who came back and were not recognised when they came home, one of the most shameful acts in Australia’s history.
They were just expected to deal with it, and many just couldn’t.
It was not and will never be the right way to do things.
That’s why when Prince Harry was here, it was so great how he talked so freely in his recent visit about it and acknowledging the challenges and the need for greater awareness of that mental illness.
And when he and I met together privately, we spoke about this, and he was so interested in the work of whether it was Lifeline or whether it was Kookaburra Kids which we talked about passionately or the work of so many wonderful organisations.
Whether they be with youth, with Headspace or any of these projects.
On the Sunday I was able to introduce the Prince to John and many others who were involved in all of these projects.
And when he was out in Dubbo he said, “How easy is it for you guys to talk about your mental health?
” He asked the students out there in Dubbo.
It’s a great question – and the kids all looked at the floor.
Like many of us do when this topic still comes up today.
The honest answer for us adults is “it is not as easy as you think” – so we all have to keep working at this.
The good news is asking for help is no longer seen as weakness, but it is seen as a strength.
Offering help is no longer seen as “not my business” but my responsibility as a family member, a friend, an employer and a neighbour.
I said a few months ago, that if you love Australia, which I know we all do passionately, all around the country, it means you love your fellow Australians.
That’s what it really means to love Australia.
You can love the beaches, you can love all the great history, you can love whether it’s generations or centuries, you can love all these wonderful things about Australia.
But if you really love Australia, you love your fellow Australians.
Mateship, I believe, is the Australian word for love.
“Who is my neighbour?”
It’s a question as old as time.
You have answered it at Lifeline with “we are”.
We all are, you are, everyone is my neighbour.
And everyone here knows the statistics.
One in seven of our children four to seventeen will experience a mental health challenge in any year.
For adults, it’s one in five.
There is good work happening across our country, but there is more work to do.
As a Government, yes it’s true, as John said, we have been very active in this space and I assure you with Lifeline will be more active in this space and John and I will be working through those issues now.
There was a $33 million funding boost to Lifeline – part of $72 million provided to suicide prevention initiatives that I announced in this year’s Budget.
And for Lifeline, John said, that was the first significant increase to Lifeline since John Howard was in office.
Almost $200 million a year for 24/7 counselling support for veterans and their families.
If you’re a veteran today, whether you’ve served one day or you’ve served decades, you get access to free mental health in this country as you should.
As you should as an acknowledgement for your service and the fact that we owe a memorial not just to those who have fallen but we owe a service to the living.
110 headspace centres for our young people and extending the e-headspace service, over $50 million which we put into that and I have announced in recent weeks.
$11 million in mental health funding for drought affected areas across our drought stricken New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and Victoria.
I just got a report last night from the difficulties that people are facing up there in Scone at the moment in terms of the drought.
And Lifeline will be there with our farmers and doing what they can along with the mental health counsellors who are there and working with those communities.
$102 million for mental health in aged care as people in the residential aged care facilities deal with depression and loneliness and isolation was one of the key issues that was raised with me before the last Budget about the need to ensure people in aged care were being treated for the mental illnesses that they were suffering from.
And $125 million in the “Million Minds Mental Health Research Mission” to support one million people through better prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
There is still so much more to do in this area and you’re here doing it today.
And our Government, and state governments right across the country, will keep doing what we need to do.
I think this issue has transcended politics and I hope it always will.
That there will be a bipartisanship, a multi-partisanship, as we all work together to try and raise awareness and support those who are in the front line like they are here at Lifeline.
But it starts with us all listening to each other, and respecting each other and caring for each other.
To look for the signs.
To stand by our mates.
To treat mental health in the same way we treat physical health – free of any stigma.
Since its foundation more than 20 years ago, the Asia Society Australia has provided a unique forum for bringing together those with a keen interest in Australia’s engagement with Asia.
Today, as I head into my first annual Summit season as Prime Minister, I would like to share with you some perspectives on my approach to Australia’s engagement with our region and more broadly.
Our foreign policy defines what we believe about the world and our place in it.
It must speak of our character, our values.
What we stand for.
What we believe in and, if need be, what we’ll defend.
This is what guides our national interest.
I fear foreign policy these days is too often being assessed through a narrow transactional lens.
Taking an overly transactional approach to foreign policy and how we define our national interests sells us short.
If we allow such an approach to compromise our beliefs, we let ourselves down, and we stop speaking with an Australian voice.
We are more than the sum of our deals.
We are better than that.
So what are the beliefs that guide our interests?
We believe that the path to peace and liberty demands the pursuit of prosperity through private capital, rights to own property, entrepreneurialism and free and open markets.
That is what lifts people out of poverty.
We believe that acceptance should not be determined by race or religion.
Rather, we accept people by their words and judge them by their actions.
We believe in freedom of speech, thought, association and religion.
We believe in peaceful liberal democracy; the rule of law; separation of powers; racial and gender equality where every citizen has choice and opportunity to follow their own paths and dreams.
A fair go for those who have a go - that is what fairness means in Australia.
We believe in the limits of government – because free peoples are the best foundation to show mutual respect to all.
We believe in standing by our mates, side by side with nations that believe the same things we do.
From the United Kingdom and the democracies of Europe to the United States and Canada.
From the state of Israel to the city state of Singapore.
From Japan and South Korea in North Asia to New Zealand, across the ditch.
We believe in being good neighbours – regardless of whether there are differences in how we see the world and run our respective societies.
We also believe this should be a two way street.
We respect their sovereignty and their right to run their own show.
We simply ask for no more than the same in return.
That our views and beliefs -- the decisions we make, the questions we ask and how we go about answering those questions and making those decisions -- is also respected.
When we do this, we can come together and engage on our common interests for the mutual benefit of our peoples, regardless of any other differences.
What we advocate for our region and the world are the same things that drive us at home.
I’ve been very clear about my domestic priorities— keeping our economy strong, keeping Australians safe, and keeping us together.
Prosperity, security and unity.
Our international agenda is built on these strong domestic foundations and were reflected in the key themes of the Foreign Policy White Paper released last year.
The tide of history is moving to our doorstep.
But we can’t pretend this tide of change happens seamlessly or smoothly.
As economic power shifts, it’s unsurprising that nations will seek to play a bigger strategic role in our region.
China, in particular, is exercising unprecedented influence in the Indo-Pacific.
At the same time, many of our partners globally -- from our most important partner and ally the United States, to others in Europe and elsewhere -- are debating the value of free trade and worry about the costs and risks of their global commitments.
We cannot wish away these debates and challenges.
Their political impacts are profound.
Australia is committed to ensuring the peaceful evolution of our own region in these times.
It will take the right combination of both pragmatism and principle, always playing to our strengths.
Australia’s economy is growing, our country is confident, our budget position is getting stronger and stronger.
Our continued success depends on being open to trade and investment.
We don’t get rich selling things to ourselves.
Just as we need capital and other inputs to build our economy, we need open markets and transparent rules.
Trade accounts for 1 in 5 Australian jobs, and employs over 2.
2 million people.
We have skills and resources in abundance that the rest of the world wants.
And we are a reliable partner.
Open markets for services give Australian consumers increased choice and provides businesses with access to a wider range of skills and expertise.
It’s estimated that annual incomes for the average Australian family are now $8,500 higher thanks to thirty years of trade liberalisation.
Also, Asia’s unprecedented growth over the past three decades has, as the Asia Society knows, transformed not just Asia, but the world at large.
There are now one billion fewer people living in extreme poverty than there were in 1990 and much of that is due to growth in our region.
That prosperity has been built on a web of institutions and rules that has supported economic openness and curbed beggar-thy-neighbour trade barriers.
The World Trade Organization has long been at the heart of this system.
Its rules limit arbitrary trade restrictions and the use of unilateral trade measures so we can trade with confidence.
Now no system is perfect and we acknowledge that frustrations have been growing with the WTO’s rule-making, transparency and disputes functions.
Many members have legitimate concerns about the impact of policies such as industrial subsidies, which lead to overproduction.
Australia has been calling out similar practices for decades in relation to agriculture.
Equally, there are valid concerns about the protection of intellectual property and the rules governing the involvement of government entities in markets.
In responding our best tool is the negotiating table – not increased tariffs.
We will support efforts to improve and strengthen the WTO, recognising some of the legitimate frustrations of the United States and other countries.
We will also persist with a pragmatic trade agenda pursuing trade liberalisation wherever possible.
Nothing demonstrates that more clearly than the TPP 11 which Australia ratified just yesterday.
With six countries now on board, the Agreement will kick-in this year and Australia will get immediate tariff cuts from 30 December.
This agreement will give our businesses and farmers greater access to half a billion more customers.
Across the board, we are pursuing trade opportunities wherever we can.
Looking forward, we have a significant FTA agenda, including our Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement with Indonesia, and advancing negotiations on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership with ASEAN and other key regional economies, with the EU and, post-Brexit, with the UK.
This agenda is built on a record of achievement, including the three free trade agreements our government signed with China, Japan and Korea that continue to deliver huge gains for our companies.
We are also looking to the long term.
In particular, we want to enhance our partnership with India.
The foundations are already strong – we share values, a commitment to democratic institutions, enormous goodwill and strong relationships between our people.
And we share a common strategic outlook.
The time is right to step up our efforts.
We welcome the India Economic Strategy to 2035 authored by the former High Commissioner to India and head of DFAT, Peter Varghese.
It’s the first step towards a long-term investment that cements India in the front rank of Australia’s partnerships.
I will have more to say about this when the President of India visits Australia in a few weeks’ time.
Economic security alone is not enough.
Prosperity requires security.
Security is a common endeavour with a common dividend.
At forthcoming meetings, I will be advancing our work with others to tackle terrorism and violent extremism, cyber-crime, people smuggling and nuclear proliferation.
I will discuss how, even as the prospect of peace on the Korean peninsula appears to be improving, we need to maintain maximum pressure on the DPRK to ensure the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula.
I will reiterate Australia’s enduring interest in ensuring that freedom of navigation and overflight are respected by all states, large and small.
In all of these matters, the United States remains vital to the sort of region we want to see.
The alliance with the United States is a choice we make about how best to pursue our security interests.
And US economic engagement is as essential to regional stability and prosperity as its security capabilities and network of alliances.
Australia also has a vitally important relationship with China.
Trade, tourism and educational exchanges are at record highs.
Australia values and honours these tens of thousands of daily interactions between our peoples.
We are committed to deepening our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with China, and I look forward to discussing how we do that with China’s leaders later this month.
Of course, China is not alone in being a force of change in our world.
But China is the country that is most changing the balance of power, sometimes in ways that challenge important US interests.
Inevitably, in the period ahead, we will be navigating a higher degree of US-China strategic competition.
A strong America — centrally engaged in the affairs of our region — is critical to Australia’s national interests.
Australia does not seek a free ride when it comes to regional security and prosperity.
We support the strongest possible US political, security and economic engagement in the Indo-Pacific in tangible ways, including by lifting our defence spending.
At the same time, it is important that US-China relations do not become defined by confrontation.
There must remain room for dialogue and cooperation.
The period ahead will, at times, be testing but I am confident of our ability to navigate it.
And once again our values and beliefs will guide us.
Australia has always sought to be a citizen that plays its part in the world.
This has been particularly true in the Middle East.
From the Great War a century ago to Iraq and Afghanistan more recently.
We have turned up, we have played our part, we have done our share and we have paid the price through great sacrifices.
We have done this because we believe it is right.
Being true to our values and principles is always be in our interest.
Our support for Israel and our passionate desire for the success of a two state solution in the Middle East is based on these same beliefs and our desire for a lasting peace, and will continue to drive policy in this area.
Closer to home, Australia will continue to deepen cooperation with Japan, Indonesia, India and the Republic of Korea to help forge a balance in our region that supports openness and ensures the rights of all states are protected.
I look forward to warmly welcoming Japanese Prime Minister Abe to Australia soon.
The strength of our relationships with these democracies will advance our interests however the regional order evolves in the future.
It was no accident that my first international visit as Prime Minister was to Jakarta.
It has become an Australian Prime Ministerial tradition.
Australia has a vital partnership with Indonesia.
Indonesia is one of democracy’s greatest success stories in recent times, in my own lifetime.
It is a relationship compelled by geography, but nurtured by mutual respect, both in understanding of our differences and appreciating common goals, interests and values.
I look forward to meeting President Widodo again soon to extend our achievements in the relationship to date.
ASEAN has played a critical role in supporting regional stability and prosperity, and is at the centre of regional architecture.
Australia’s vision of the Indo-Pacific has ASEAN at its heart.
ASEAN’s success is fundamental to the interests of all the main players in the Indo-Pacific, including Australia.
Australia’s commitment to ASEAN was made clear at the Special Summit in March this year and through the Sydney Declaration which set out an ambitious agenda to deepen our cooperation.
I will be advancing that agenda at an informal summit with ASEAN leaders soon, in areas such as counter-terrorism, infrastructure and maritime cooperation.
And I will be discussing opportunities to work more closely together on transnational crime, to scale up oc-operation on cyber issues and to strengthen our defence engagement.
Just as important as the stability, prosperity and openness of Southeast Asia, is our engagement with our neighbours and family in the Pacific.
As family, we deal with each other openly and honestly, and above all with respect.
But like all families we sometimes take each other for granted.
The Government I lead is committed to the Pacific as one of my highest foreign policy priorities, because this is where we live.
This is a relationship that I want to see rise to a new level of respect, partnership, familiarity and appreciation.
I want us to do better.
I want to set right how we engage with our Pacific family - our Vuvale, our Whanau.
I will not be taking our Pacific family for granted.
My first meetings with foreign leaders in Australia were with the Prime Ministers of Solomon Islands and Fiji and this afternoon I’ll meet Papua New Guinea’s Prime Minister O’Neill.
I’m also looking forward to meeting my Pacific counterparts after APEC in Port Moresby.
APEC will be a great opportunity for our closest neighbour to tell its story to the world.
We’ll work more closely than ever with the Pacific islands on those issues of greatest concern to them - including climate solutions and disaster resilience, and we will keep the international commitments we have made in these areas.
We are building labour mobility opportunities for Pacific countries to Australia, and ensuring Pacific countries will always take precedence.
We’re providing Australia Award scholarships to the Pacific - 1,474 last year alone.
We’re majority funding undersea cables to Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, including a domestic network in the Solomons - which will deliver faster, cheaper and more reliable communications.
And we want to continue working with others - traditional partners like New Zealand and the United States, as well as newer ones such as China - to ensure our engagement strengthens the common goal of enhancing sustainable economic development and the wellbeing of our Pacific friends.
I want to strengthen our engagement with the Pacific for the Pacific’s sake.
Because this is our home.
We will build on the ‘Boe” Pacific Regional Security Declaration to drive greater security co-operation, build greater economic linkages and strengthen the integration of our economies.
We are also working together to increase safety and security -- delivering bigger and more capable patrol boats and aerial surveillance, and sharing more information, to help the Pacific stop drug trafficking, people smuggling and illegal fishing.
And the new Australia Pacific Security College will train the next generation of security officials.
We have negotiated a Bilateral Security Agreement with Solomon Islands and we are working with Fiji to develop the Blackrock regional peacekeeping and disaster training hub.
As well, we will take take steps with Vanuatu to further strengthen our partnership, including on security.
And later this afternoon, my friend and partner, Prime Minister Peter O’Neill of Papua New Guinea and I will formally commit to a joint initiative to develop the Lombrum base on Manus.
We will also confirm a new long-term police partnership.
And commit to new annual leaders meetings, recognising the importance of each country to the other.
Like all families we are strongest when we listen to each other, stand with each other and show respect.
At a time of change, uncertainty and strategic competition, Australia will need to act with even greater purpose and conviction.
We also need to think about how our national power can be applied to protect and advance our interests.
This begins with our substantial investments in building a more capable, agile and potent Australian Defence Force.
Over the past five years, our government has been strengthening the Australian Defence Force.
Our Defence White Paper is fully funded and outlines how we will invest $200 billion in Australia’s Defence capability over the next 10 years.
Since our election in 2013 our Government committed to and has set about restoring our defence spending to 2% of GDP.
We will achieve this three years ahead of time, in 2020-21.
It hasn’t been easy.
While reluctant to strike a partisan note in this presentation it must be observed that while the Labor Opposition now say they support these goals, when they had the responsibility, defence spending as a share of our economy fell to the lowest level since prior to the Second World War, with not one naval ship commissioned during their term of administration
We are now undertaking the largest regeneration of the Royal Australian Navy since the Second World War, including the doubling of our future submarine fleet, a new fleet of nine frigates and a new fleet of 12 offshore patrol vessels to ensure our borders remain secure.
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program will give the Air Force unprecedented air capability to combat future threats.
And the Army is being backed in with new Armoured Reconnaissance Vehicles and new weapons as well as new body armour and night fighting equipment.
All of this is being done because the best way to keep Australians safe is to give the best capability to the men and women of our ADF.
Our influence internationally is built on our strength at home.
On our democracy and open society that binds us together.
On our belief in freedom and the fair go.
And it’s built on a strong economy that enables us to fulfil our promise to the Australian people.
I go to “summit season” - to the East Asia Summit in Singapore, to APEC in Papua New Guinea and to the G20 in Argentina - clear-eyed about what we believe, what we stand for and ready to advance Australia’s case.
While we live on an island — the best one on earth — we can’t afford to have an island mentality.
We embrace free trade, global engagement, and an international system where we agree to rules, stick to them and honour our commitments.
We embrace an open, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.
Because shrinking into ourselves will never work.
If we want to keep our economy strong, if we want to keep Australians safe and if we want to stay united as a community we must engage with the world.
And seize the opportunities presented with both hands based on the beliefs and values that have always underpinned our success.
Last night I was handing out the Prime Minister’s science awards and it was quite a tremendous evening, but I feel like it’s a continuation of the same conference this morning, the same event.
Because the best scientists I know are working in the agricultural sector.
They’re farmers, they’re working out there on the land.
They’re understanding it, and they have been doing it for generations and generations.
The best environmentalists in Australia are farmers.
No one knows it better than they do and no one understands it better about how you’ve got to strike the balance between caring for the environment, ensuring the productive use of the resources that we have available.
And importantly, the contribution to the social cohesion and community of rural and regional towns all around the country.
Farmers get this.
You’ve always got this and we get it that you get it.
That’s why I’m very pleased to be here with you today.
One of the things that I’m sure you will be appreciative of is that we live in a country that has a strong economy.
And that doesn’t happen by accident.
It only happens where you don’t take your economy for granted and that you have policies that are designed to keep growing the economy.
Because, you know, you can’t have greater fairness without greater prosperity.
That’s always been Australia’s story.
The two working together.
It’s no good having policies that are trying to argue about how you carve up an ever-diminishing pie.
You want to grow they pie so there’s more for everybody.
You don’t lift some up by pulling others down.
That’s what we believe as a Government.
You don’t help your environment by pulling your farmers down.
You don’t help your communities by pulling your farmers down, you actually try and lift everybody up.
And the agricultural sector in rural and regional parts in our country I think have always understood that you get much further together than you get apart.
In our rural communities, our regional communities, that has always been understood and I think it’s something that this place, here in Canberra, needs to focus more on.
Actually solving and working through problems together, rather than trying to drive people apart.
That strong economy is of course a function of many things.
Lower taxes, which our Government has championed and just this week passing through the Parliament will be further reductions in taxes for business of less than $50 million in turnover to just over 25 per cent.
From 30 per cent where we started down to 25 per cent for businesses, and that would be encompassing businesses, rural and regional businesses, agricultural businesses all across the country.
It’s a tax cut for farmers and it’s a tax cut we have fought for every single day since we have been elected to ensure that is what invested on a farm which may have a turnover of less than $10 million – the instant asset write-off, the pool depreciation, the GST on the cash basis – it wasn’t there before.
It was only reserved for the smallest of businesses.
And we have recognised that small and family businesses, which are farming businesses, deserve to have a government that supports them by lowering your tax.
We belief that you should keep more of what you’ve earned.
Because we believe that you are better placed to invest what you’ve earned than the government is.
You’ll invest it in your farm.
You’ll invest it in your future.
You’ll invest it in your family, in your children’s education.
You’ll invest it in your community, and so that’s why I want you can have it so you can invest it rather than it coming down here to Canberra.
Now, no disrespect to the public officials and the government departments.
You work closely with them too.
But you know, if I’ve got to choose where the money is better off to stay – in communities, in the hands of rural and regional businesses, for farmers – that’s where it should remain.
That’s why we believe taxes should be lower.
But we also think your markets should be bigger and yesterday, the TPP-11 passed our Parliament.
Your sector more than any other knows the opportunities of trade.
We have always been an open, trading nation.
That is one of the pillars of our national prosperity.
We are in our 27th year of consecutive, economic growth.
It’s a world record.
The fact we are an open, trading nation is one of the most important reasons for that success.
And our Government will never give up on expanding our limits for trade.
Wherever we have to go, wherever that negotiation is taking place, wherever the opportunity is.
Simon Birmingham, before that Steven Ciobo and before that Andrew Robb, out there crunching deals to ensure there are more markets for where you can sell what you grow and what you produce.
That’s what...
we believe it.
Because without it, Australia’s prosperity is diminished.
The economy does not grow.
The TPP-11 means improved access for our farmers when they need it most.
This landmark agreement strips 98 per cent of tariffs for eleven countries with a combined GDP of more than $13.
8 thousand billion dollars and close to half a billion customers.
Now as a Government, we believed it was important to fight for it.
I remember I was in Germany at a G20 meeting.
After everyone said, “It’s all done, this Trans Pacific Partnership.
” In fact that Labor Party mocked us, it was like the dead parrot sketch out of Monty Python.
That was the joke they were saying about the TPP.
We didn’t believe it, because we believe in trade and we said, “We’re going to fight for this.
” And our Government did, and Malcolm did and Steven did, and we teamed up together with the Kiwis and the Japanese and Prime Minister Abe in particular.
And Prime Minister Turnbull pursued that with a dogged determination that I will also pursue these arrangements and they got the deal.
And it stuck.
And now we’re the fourth country to ratify that agreement, and there are two more to go and then it comes into effect.
The modelling also shows Australia is forecast to see some $15.
6 thousand million, $15.
6 billion in net annual benefits to national income within just over the next decade from this agreement.
So I would call that a good deal.
I would call that a deal that is worth pursuing, to ensure that we can realise the opportunities that are out there.
Now I want to have a fair dinkum conversation with you about labour on farms.
There has been a lot of talk about this and I want us to have a really honest conversation about it today.
Our Government does support moving towards an agricultural visa.
There has never been any question about that.
There have been plenty of people who want to kick up dust about it, commentating on it.
We have never, ever said we don’t think that’s a good idea.
But we have to go about it in the right way, and it’s not a silver bullet and it doesn’t solve all the problems in relation to the forthcoming harvest.
I want to see fruit picked.
I want to see the strawberries picked, I want to see the mangoes picked, I want to make sure that this gets off the vine and it gets to market.
And we’ve got a three step plan to achieve that for the harvest.
You can’t just introduce and agricultural visa overnight and then all of a sudden everyone turns up and they’re on the farm picking fruit.
That’s not how it works.
I’m a former Immigration Minister.
It is true that I barely know one end of the sheep from another, or one end of the paddock from another.
But I tell you what, I know a lot about how to get things done here.
That’s my record, whether it’s on the budget, whether it’s on social services.
We now have the lowest level of welfare dependency of the working age population of this country in more than 25 years.
On immigration, you know of our successes with Operation Sovereign Borders.
So I get it.
I don’t know how your farm works, but I do know how this place works and I do know how you can get things done here.
So this is how I believe we can solve this problem coming into the harvest.
Yes, we will work to establish an agricultural visa.
That is the long-term solution that is even the medium-term solution.
And we need to work to that and make sure it has integrity and we need to make sure that it can deliver against the requirements of the Australian people when it comes to our immigration programme.
But this what we need to do to deal with the problem in the short term.
Now at no stage did I say the only thing that we were going to do to is get Australians into Australian jobs and I still believe that and I’ll never resolve from it.
If someone is out there and they are fit and they are able and they are willing to work and they live in those communities, they should be taking those jobs.
Because it wasn’t that long ago that they did.
I was up in Glass House Mountain a few weeks ago and I was talking to the strawberry farmers and they told me that it wasn’t that long ago that it was the locals picking the strawberries.
About ten or fifteen years ago, they said.
But it’s not happening now.
And I know down in Tasmania when it comes to the apple orchards that they have had the problems of getting local young people who weren’t in work to come and do this work.
And I get that, I’ve always known that.
But it doesn’t mean you give up on it.
It doesn’t mean you say, “Oh that’s all right, they can sit at home and not have to take work that they should be taking in their local communities, that supports their local communities and just pick up the dole.
” That’s not ok, so I’m never going to say it is.
And every opportunity I have to connect a young person to a job in their town, I will do it.
But I’m not naive.
I don’t think and never have I said that I think that’s going to solve the immediate problem.
And so what I ask you to do and I implore you to do this today – and I know that Fiona will as well – and that is, I need you to register the jobs that you need filled on the National Harvest Labour Information Service, 1800 062 332, or go to jobsearch.
gov.
au/harvest.
I need you to register those jobs because I need to know where are the jobs?
When do they start?
How long do they run for?
What are you paying them?
What’s the deal?
Now, where there’s a mismatch between the jobs that are needed and those that are available to do it, we will be moving quite quickly because we’re doing it even now as we speak, parallel with this other process to ensure that the Working Holiday Maker Visa Program and the Pacific Labour Scheme and the Seasonal Worker Program – those two Pacific Island Schemes are very important to us and I’ve spoken to many farmers around the country who use them and they’re successful.
Can they meet all the demand?
Unlikely.
But then my first port of call when it comes to our partners in the Pacific – and I don’t want to see that program undermined because it’s a very important part of Australia’s national policy and relationships and it’s also good for the agricultural sector.
But the reason why I need to know where the shortages are is we just can’t work off a hunch: “We might need a few more here.
” I need to know where the jobs are because we will ensure that any relaxation we have around the rules for Working Holiday Makers Visas or any of these other schemes will be targeted to the areas where those shortages are.
One of the biggest frustrations I have had as a Minister in this Government, and continues now as Prime Minister, is getting an accurate read on labour shortages.
I hear plenty of anecdotes but I don’t see enough hard data.
Now, if we’re going to make these changes – and we will – I’m going to make sure they’re targeted to the areas where the labour shortages are because if they’re not, you know what we end up doing?
We relax the visas and we get more Uber drivers in Melbourne.
Well, that’s not getting any fruit off any trees anywhere so it must be targeted and I need you and I implore you to work with me, with David Coleman, with Alan Tudge and David Littleproud – and in particular, Michael McCormack because it has been Michael McCormack and I who have been working on this plan from the day we signed up as a Coalition under our respective leaderships.
Michael and I have been working to this plan from that very day and it’s a sensible plan.
It acknowledges that we need an agricultural visa but it acknowledges, more importantly, that we have a more immediate issue to address and we all know – if we’re being really honest with each other – what some of the concerns are when you start liberalising the visas for agricultural workers because do you know who tells me about it?
Farmers do.
Farmers tell me this.
They say, “We’re doing the right thing.
We pay our people right and we look after them and we follow the rules.
But so-and-so down the road is not.
” Or: “I know of this case somewhere else.
” And having been a former Minister for Border Protection, I know too because I’ve ordered the raids and I know what goes on and I won’t put up with it and you won’t put up with it either, I know, as an industry because I know when you hear those stories about abuse of workers and cash work and illegal work, you’re very disappointed because that’s not your show, that’s not your industry, that’s not your sector, that’s not how you do things.
And as the Prime Minister, and as the Ministers responsible, they need to protect the integrity of this program because, you know, Australians will lose patience with visa programs that fail and allow themselves to be rorted and abused.
And so, we have to work together to ensure that when we get to the point where we can have this new visa, that it’s one Australians can support because they know that we’ve done everything we can to get Australians into those jobs, that we’ve done everything we can and will do to ensure that we’re targeting the measures to those jobs in the areas where it’s needed and that we ensure that the integrity of the system where the people who are coming and working are being treated properly, being paid properly and I think we all agree with all of those objectives, I’m quite certain we do and I reckon we can get this done so I’m asking you, and I’m sure I’ll be overwhelmed at the positive response to work with us to get this done.
We can get it done, I’m looking forward to getting it done, we know what the need is, we totally get it, we’ve got a plan to do it and I want to congratulate Michael McCormack more than anyone else for being the champion of working through this issue in a constructive and practical way because everyone can stand up and say, “We’re going to do this, we’ll do that.
”
But if you’re not focused on the outcome, actually getting the result, then what’s the point?
And that’s what I’ve found in Michael and the team that I’ve been working with and my regional team of Liberals like Tony and Rowan Ramsey and the whole fleet of working together to ensure that we get the right outcome on these issues.
Now, in the time that I have available – which is not much, I really want to say thank you to Fiona and the NFF and to all of those who have been working so hard to ensure that we deliver on the ground for farmers and regional and rural communities that have been affected by the drought.
When I went to Quilpie, I frankly didn’t realise people get so excited about me wearing a cap, it’s not that uncommon, now I have like a hundred caps, everywhere I’ve been since, everyone’s given me a cap.
Which is nice, I like them, they’re great but...
PRIME MINISTER: Sorry?
[laughs] A little later.
But when I went to Quilpie and really – it seems funny to say this but – really enjoyed the day, met some wonderful families and the reason why I wanted to go to Quilpie, and it was one of the first things Michael and I talked about, was the drought has been affecting parts of my home state in the New South Wales terribly but in Queensland and out in Quilpie they’ve been doing it for a lot longer – six years and more.
And I wanted to talk to people who’d been able to get themselves through that last six years and understand how they were achieving it because I thought if I can understand how they got through six years then that’s going to help me work out, well, how can I help those who are in the earlier stages and how they’re going to get through?
And I went up there not really knowing what to expect as a suburban mortgage belt boy from Sydney and what I was so pleased to see and so enthused to see was the optimism, the hope, the belief, the community, the resilience and the success under the most trying of circumstances and it filled me with hope.
And I think, you know, when it comes to how we’re dealing with the drought, one thing we’ve got to keep giving people is hope.
And I stood there out at Quilpie on that property and they showed me a picture of the field adjacent to where we were at the moment which was pretty brown and they showed me a picture where the grass was up to your thigh.
So they understand as you do, it comes back, it goes in seasons, this one’s particularly tough – tougher than most, maybe than any in anyone’s living memory for some parts – but the hope remains, the commitment to the lifestyle remains, the passion for what that means for rural and regional communities remains, and that’s what our Government is investing in.
We’re investing in that hope and that resilience and that determination.
I particularly want to thanks the CWA who’s here today, there are many charities and I probably offended many now by only mentioning the CWA and I hope I haven’t because I think they deserve great acknowledgement for the work that they’ve been doing in these communities as the many, many charitable organisations are out there doing.
And I want to thank them, we need to coordinate that better, we need to target it better, on Friday week we will be having the drought summit and that’s really the job to get “a common operating picture”, as Major General Day would say, about what’s the situation, what’s the next step, how do we rebuild, what’s the long-term plan, issues around water infrastructure, issues about immediate relief and having the vision towards the longer term plan around fodder storage and fodder reserves and resilience both financially, environmentally, structurally.
They’re the questions for next week and I want to thank Fiona for the NFF’s engagement on all of those issues.
Now, there’s one issue that I think probably encapsulates our attitude about how to deal with things when it comes to responding to the drought.
It’s the issue we talked about with the heavy vehicle regulation and Scotty Buchholz.
The issue was raised, you know, it’s a pretty simple thing.
The hay bales, they come down and they spread.
Now, that was news to me but that’s what happens and we’ve got these rules which meant the trucks couldn’t cross the line and they were getting fined.
Numpty stuff.
Total numpty stuff and it had to be fixed and within a very short period of time, Scotty and the team at the Heavy Vehicle Regulation Authority, working together with Government, just got it done.
Just got it done.
Now, Ronald Reagan used to say, you get a lot more done when you don’t care who gets the credit.
He was right about that.
Credits.
It doesn’t matter.
What matters is we work together to get through the drought, what matters is we work together to deal with the real challenges that we face – whether it’s in labour shortages, whether it’s in science and technology and how we support the sector, whether it’s the finance of how we work for our rural and regional communities, whether it’s opening up new markets and opportunities for our farmers all around the world.
You know, we stick together, we work together, we bring Australians together then this country’s just going to get stronger and stronger and stronger and as always, it’s going to be significantly off the back of the people who are in this room.
Closeted away all day doing experiments, on the computers working through all the amazing things that you do, going into your own minds and coming out the other side, this is what fascinates me about science.
You know, the person who most fascinated me about science was Captain Cook.
Now, you might go: “Why Captain Cook?
” Well, yes he was an amazing navigator and his voyages and discoveries are legendary, but when you read Cook’s journals and you read about him, you discover that he was actually a scientist.
And that’s what he should be remembered for more than anything else; an inquiring mind, a mind that wanted to understand, a mind that wanted to pass on that knowledge, a mind that wanted to explore the boundaries.
I don’t know if you know this, but James T Kirk from Star Trek was actually -
I’m not kidding, Gene Roddenberry confirmed this - was modelled on James Cook.
To go where no one had been before, that’s what you do.
As scientist you go where we haven’t been before, you dare to imagine the things that others haven’t.
I have no doubt that as you do that, you think it might be there, you suspect it might be.
You turn it into a theory, then you follow the rulebook, but it all begins with something you believe.
Something you think is possible.
And if you look at all the great minds over time, those in Australia, those down through the generations around the world, that is that I think has always really encapsured, the great magic of science, if you like.
It starts with belief, it starts with passion.
The people in this room are pressing forward in ways that are making our country stronger.
Making our society stronger.
You’re keeping people healthier, stronger, safer.
You’re making an extraordinary difference to the daily lives not only of Australians but people all around the world.
Now, it’s true I actually have a science degree –
It’s true.
But I hate to disappoint you; it’s in Applied Science, Social Sciences and Economic Geography.
But that said –
BSc Hons is what I used to put on the card many, many years ago and I’ve always felt like I should have changed it to something else because I never really thought of it in the same way as those of you here.
But look, I was passionate and I was interested and I did believe and I did want to learn and did want to know.
You know, today in Australia, our people are our best asset, that’s been true for a long time.
We’re accepting, we adapt, we’re not very hierarchical in this country and we are inquisitive.
And if we want to keep up the huge pace and scale of change in technology and industry that we’re seeing and in our society, we need people who know how to lead us there.
There’s people in the room tonight as you’ve gathered together, who exemplify that.
We are in a new fourth revolution, industrial revolution.
A revolution that reflects breakthroughs in every field of endeavour.
In your daily work in genetics, in artificial intelligence and robotics, nanotechnology, 3 –D printing – this is all the sexy stuff -
Biotechnology.
But in so many other areas which is not so much, that doesn’t often get the headlines but is equally important and people are equally passionate about.
We used to think of our assets as being just those in the ground and it was many years ago at the start of the gold rush that it was pretty straightforward to get to surface gold.
All you needed was a pick and a shovel, a panning dish and then you could sift with a cradle.
It was hard work but it was relatively simple.
But with those sorts of tools, you couldn’t get to the good stuff buried deeper down, the stuff that was covered by the basalt in the old creek beds or the gold-bearing quartz in the cracks and the crevasses.
That was much harder to get at and very lucrative too.
To get that, you had to go below the surface and you had to go below the surface of your own imagination as well, because you needed technology and you needed skills.
In Ballarat, they realised this, that they were lacking in the know-how.
So they decided to do something about it, as Australians always have.
So they set up the Ballarat School of Mines in 1870 and upon opening the school, its first President declared the “era of the cradle and the tin dish was over”, and it was “time for the calculating and inventive brain and cultivated intelligence to play their part.
” That’s what he said.
Those words ring as true today as they were said then.
The new school trained people in science, maths, engineering, geology, mineralogy, chemistry and metallurgy.
Many years later, one of the principals of that Ballarat School of Mines was someone called Charles Fenner.
Now if that name seems familiar to you, it’s because he was the father of the late Frank Fenner, in whose name we honour the annual prize for Life Scientist of the Year, that we’re presenting later this evening.
I want to acknowledge Frank’s daughter Marilyn Fenner who is in the audience tonight, no doubt you’ve heard the stories Marilyn.
Today’s gold rush though is a technological one as well.
Just like then, it’s massive and just as we did back then we need to sharpen our knowledge if we’re going to take advantage and not miss this huge moment in our history.
We’ll need knowledge of science and our knowledge of maths, because maths is the language of science, it is.
We’ve got a maths teacher out there.
I was asked a question recently, who was one of the most formative people in my time at school and in my upbringing.
Now if you look at me you’d probably think it was his rugby coach or someone like that.
It wasn’t actually, it was my maths teacher, a guy called Mark Reed.
He was also our year master and he instilled a passion in his students for how what he was teaching connected to broader life.
He was also a mad punter, which I think explained his keen interest in maths.
Nonetheless he took what he was passionate about – horse-racing and maths – and it made him an amazing teacher.
We did a lot of work on probability theory.
We actually did.
Now, I’ve lost my place.
Our STEM education though, on a more serious note, in science, technology engineering and maths, we did used to lead the world in this area.
It’s been about 12 years now that we’ve been slipping back into the middle of the pack.
It’s something we need to continue to do things about.
But not just governments, all of us.
I want to ask you something; do you think intermediate level maths should be a prerequisite for studying engineering at uni?
You’d think so.
I would think so.
But do you know in this country, more than 40 per cent of unis will let you into engineering degrees without it?
Only 14 per cent of universities require at least intermediate level maths for entry into a Bachelor of Science and only 13 per cent for entry into a Bachelor of Commerce.
I think that sort of says: “No, don’t worry, you’ll be right, just Google it.
” Well that’s - I don’t Google the Budget, I can tell you that.
Now, some may disagree.
But I’ll disagree with you, mine adds up.
There has been some positive change, notably from the University of Sydney, where they’re working to raise that bar again and good on you to the University of Sydney.
It’s just a start, there’s a way to go and as Vice Chancellors come to see me, asking me their usual questions – I don’t have to give you a guess about what it is, though it does relate to budgets, - I’m going to ask them what are your prerequisites for science and engineering courses when it comes to maths?
Is it any wonder that there’s been a sharp decline in the number of Year 12 students choosing advanced maths subjects, when that’s the message they’re getting?
Why would you bother putting yourself though all that mental challenge of difficult subjects, getting Bs and Cs instead of As, when all the signs point to it not being necessary?
Universities and schools need to send that message about maths and science, to young people.
It’s particularly important for female students, who according to the statistics are currently much less likely to participate in the more advanced maths and science subjects.
As a father of two daughters, I can only encourage them to take a different view.
I encourage my daughters and everyone else’s daughters to consider these areas for them.
So, we do need to change that.
We do need to reassert the importance of science and maths because that is essential if we’re to have the pipeline of students that we require.
You know, I was up in Boeing earlier this year and Boeing – I don’t know if you’ve ever been there and seen the sort of production line that goes into putting the Dreamliners and all of these things together.
It’s an absolutely amazing thing to behold.
Boeing’s presence in the United States is known, but the second largest presence that Boeing has outside of the United States is actually here in Australia.
It’s down in Fishermans Bend.
I asked them then, as the Treasurer, keen to see how we can continue to ensure a strong place and a future for manufacturing in Australia.
I said: “Tell me, why?
I don’t want to talk you out of it, I want to talk you into it, but why?
What was the basis of your decision?
” And they said: “Because the people who are there are smart.
” They don’t have the luxury in a huge production line like that, with a supply chain that goes around the world, to be working with people who don’t know what they’re doing.
The future of manufacturing in Australia today isn’t about companies coming to chase cheap labour around South East Asia and the Pacific, that’s not its future, they’ve worked that out too.
The ability to get it right every single time is what matters today.
That’s where the value is added and that’s where I’m excited about the future of manufacturing in Australia; because the gold mine that sits inside the noodles of Australians is what is going to ensure that Australia has a manufacturing industry that value-adds right into the future.
But for that to happen, we need you.
We need you breaking that ground.
We need you out there like Jimmy Kirk, or Jimmy Cook, or Janie Cook, whichever you like.
But we need you out there discovering those new frontiers, breaking open the ground, being the inquiring mind, having the passion whether you’re teacher infusing that passion like good old Mark Reed did when I was much younger and let them see the potential and the excitement and the opportunity.
I’ll finish with this and it’s a tribute to the great champions who work at the CSIRO.
One of its former leaders the late Sir Malcolm McIntosh – and tonight we’ll have an award in his name presented to the Physical Scientist of the Year and I want to acknowledge Lady Margaret McIntosh and members of the McIntosh family here also tonight.
Not long after Malcolm took up the top job at the CSIRO, he spoke with a science magazine about the importance of getting good science out of the laboratory and into the industry and community.
He said this.
“It simply isn’t possible to live sensibly in this society without having some understanding of science.
If we’re to progress the society and keep the standards of living of Australians high, then it has to be more than that.
It has to be an active participation in science.
It’s not actually you do with a big bang, but to inculcate a scientific community is a very long process.
It doesn’t start with people like you and me making speeches, you’ll be pleased to know, it starts at school”.
I couldn’t agree more.
Now Karen Andrews the Minister for Science, Industry and Technology, I couldn’t have been more pleased to appoint her to that role in my Cabinet.
She’s a scientist and she’s a female scientist.
She’s an engineer, she has sat where you are, she worked in industry, she’s someone who absolutely gets it and she’s a great asset in my Cabinet.
Both of us are looking forward to working with you in all of your fields of endeavour and giving you whatever encouragement we can to go out and make the difference you do on a daily basis.
Now the central theme of this Conference has always been about the balance between economic growth and social equity in Australia.
And the Conference is a chance to take stock of what I would like to call the modern Australian Compact – a compact that supports enterprise, that supports growth, that supports fairness and social cohesion across our nation.
It’s the compact in Australia, a very Australian compact, that makes us, I think different, from so much of the rest of the developed world.
What lies at the heart of this compact?
Well you’ve heard me say it, I suspect, a few times, not only over the last seven weeks, but longer than that as Treasurer.
A fair go for those who have a go, looking after your mates and leaving no one behind.
It is a two-way compact, as it should be.
Rights and responsibilities.
Give as well as take.
A focus on making a contribution rather than taking one.
This is the promise that we all make as Australians and that we seek to keep as Australians.
Yet to fulfil this promise, we must never lose sight of this most basic truth.
Without a culture of enterprise and growing our economy – without a strong economy that supports jobs, fairness and communities – social equity is a mirage.
It is prosperity that pays for our social safety net, not sentiment.
It thus falls to each and every generation of business, of citizens, of politicians, of indeed broadcasters and journalists and those involved in public commentary, each generation to stoke the fires of enterprise and growth in Australia if we are to remain both a prosperous economy and a fair society.
That is why today I am announcing a further step forward in the Government’s, our Government’s Enterprise and Growth Plan for Australia, that I first spoke of three years ago in my first Budget.
A plan to give greater incentive to small and medium-sized businesses to invest and employ Australians by dramatically accelerating the tax cuts that we have already legislated for small and medium sized businesses.
We are going to help our job-producing small and family businesses grow even faster, with major tax cuts for Australia’s millions of small business people.
Australia’s economy is growing, our Budget position is getting stronger and stronger.
Because of our economic management, and because of that we can provide further and major tax relief to the more than 3 million small and family businesses around this country who employ more than 7 million Australians, which is more than half the workforce in Australia today.
More than half the people who work for a living in this country today work for a business that has a turnover of less than $50 million, and if you go beyond Melbourne and Sydney, south east Queensland or Perth, you go out in the regions.
It’s pretty much everybody, it’s pretty much everybody who is working in those businesses that will be the beneficiaries of our plan.
So if you are running a hairdressing salon, or a cleaning business, or a plumbing business, like Warren down in the Shire, who does our plumbing.
I remember when Jenny, when we went on ACA, Jenny said she wishes I was a plumber.
And I saw Warren down at Cronulla Mall and he said; “Mate, ScoMo, Jenny likes plumbers.
” A very Shire thing.
G’day Warren.
Or a news agency, or a coffee shop, a dry cleaners, any of these things.
This is good news for you and anyone you’ve been able to create a job for in your business.
If you are a mum or dad running a home-based business, this is fuel in your tank for your business that you’ve been waiting for and wanting.
Your small businesses, if you run a business that has a turnover of less than $50 million, you will be moving to a tax rate of 25 per cent within the next three years.
That’s right, we are going to bring forward the scheduled reduction in tax rates to 25 per cent for small and family businesses up to $50 million in turnover forward by five years to 2021-22, with the first rate cut to 26 per cent to be done in 2020-21.
And we will start this process next week.
We will be bringing in the legislation next week to make those accelerated tax cuts for small and family businesses law in this country.
So there will be a clear choice, as Paul said, at the next election.
Lower taxes for small and family businesses under our Government, or Labor’s promise for higher taxes for small and family businesses.
Because they have already said they will reverse the legislation that would have small businesses - the smallest businesses in the country - a reduction of their tax rate to 25 per cent, they have already said they will change that law if they are elected.
And now I can only assume that they would seek to change these laws that we are now seeking to legislate to ensure that within the next term of Parliament, by the end of that term of Parliament, these businesses under our laws will be at 25 per cent.
Under Labor, they will be at 27.
5 per cent.
Now our tax changes are paid for by not proceeding with the tax cuts for large businesses.
As you know, we sought to put those through the Parliament and they were rejected ultimately by the Senate, and I don’t think anyone can accuse us of not having exhausted every opportunity to pursue those.
Parliament has had their say, and we have decided to move forward to ensure that the benefits of that plan are now completely focused on small and medium sized businesses around the country.
It is also not done as a result at any risk or any threat to the return to balance year which is projected for 2019-20, and we will be able to continue to meet that objective on the estimates as they’re currently presented.
Our Government is unashamedly on the side of the women and men who run small and medium sized businesses in this country.
And we’re on the side of the millions of people they employ.
These Australians tend not to obsess about politics.
You won’t find people out there wearing t-shirts calling for lower taxes for small and medium sized businesses, in orange t-shirts or green t-shirts.
They won’t be walking around with placards and they won’t be belting down the doors of politicians.
They won’t be hassling editors, they won’t be writing op-eds.
You know why?
They’re pretty busy.
Their days are already pretty full – balancing the books, paying taxes, investing in their future, playing by the rules, caring for their families, giving back to their communities and their country.
That’s why it’s for our Government to stand up for them and to listen to them and to understand what the challenges are they face.
This isn’t a response to advocacy.
This is the action of belief and conviction of a Government that believes that small and family businesses and medium sized businesses are the hope of the side, and so we’re backing them in.
We’ve been saying that as a Government consistently from the day we were elected.
We are backing them in because they are the foundation of this Australian Compact for prosperity and fairness that we believe in.
Let me talk a bit more about the foundations of our national compact.
I want defend it today from its opponents who are increasingly filling the benches of those who represent the Labor Party in the federal Parliament.
Now this compact, this modern Australian Compact arose from a shared recognition by many people from across the political spectrum some 40 or so years ago.
After years of economic underperformance, a generation of Australian leaders from different walks of life came to appreciate that we could only aspire to be a good and compassionate society with a stronger, more competitive Australian economy.
Now some came to this view from a liberal perspective, and Peter Costello has been the greatest champion of that view on our side of politics.
Our Government at that time under the Howard Government, moving forward to achieve things in this area like few other before it.
Some came to that view from different points of political perspective.
And they converged on the need for modernising reforms to liberalise our economy, open it to the world and make it more productive.
Under the Keating reforms, that occurred and there was a consensus.
Because when the Labor Party under Bob Hawke and Paul Keating were reforming our economy, you know who was voting for those reforms alongside them?
John Howard and Peter Costello.
Backing in those reforms.
I can’t say the favour was always returned Peter, when you were moving some of the reforms when you came to Government as well.
But you could at least say that there had been some consensus that enabled the economy to modernise and to go through rather significant reform.
It led to an era of reform, and they agreed that advancing equity and fairness was best achieved off the back of a growing economy where businesses thrive, where Australians are in work, and our national income rises.
Where those who have a go are rewarded.
Where opportunities are created for individual initiative and enterprise.
Yes, people differed – sometimes fiercely – over policies.
But the mindset was not that different; the direction of travel largely agreed.
From Bob Hawke to John Howard, Bill Kelty to Hugh Morgan, if you cared about prosperity and fairness in Australia, you cared and were committed to growing our economy.
And how did you nurture that growth?
You nurtured it by fostering a vibrant, productive, free enterprise system.
The private sector employs eight in ten Australians.
To be strong and sustainable, our social compact demands a vibrant, productive, free enterprise system.
From this mindset arose the foresight and determination to pursue bold economic reforms, the fruits of which help to sustain the Australian Compact to this day.
Now our Government has served that legacy and acted in accordance with that legacy over the last five years.
We have continued the strong, long running economic growth now in its 27th year, a world record.
More than a million jobs created in five years as we promised, and before time.
The lowest percentage of working age Australians on welfare in 25 years and more.
The protection and maintenance of our AAA credit rating under some if its greatest threats, particularly on the other side of the mining investment boom that ripped $80 billion out of the Australian economy.
Record investments in health, education and infrastructure, the essential services Australians rely on supported by a strong economy.
A progressive tax system where the top 10 per cent of taxpayers are paying almost half of personal income tax and the bottom 50 per cent of taxpayers pay around 12 per cent.
The bottom 10 per cent of households by income achieving the highest income growth of any group since the Global Financial Crisis.
A tax-transfer system that reduces income inequality in Australia by more than 40 per cent according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
A social security system that targets benefits to the poor more than in any other high-income country according to Peter Whiteford from the ANU.
A decline in what the HILDA research calls ‘relative poverty’ from 13 per cent in 2007 to 9.
4 per in 2016.
And we are doing this far better than many of our other friends in other developed nations.
The lesson of the Australian Compact is that you don’t reduce poverty by bringing people down, you do it by lifting others up.
The recent Productivity Commission report tells us that unlike our friends in the United States, real incomes in Australia have risen strongly across all income deciles over the last 30 years.
In Australia, disposable income per capita has increased by an average of 1.
6 per cent a year since the 1980s.
That compares with 1.
0 per cent in the United Kingdom and just 0.
7 per cent in the United States.
Now should we aspire to do better?
Of course we should – and we are, and we will continue to.
But the evidence says our Australian Compact is delivering for Australians of all incomes.
Now those who claim the Australian Compact is broken are not just wrong on the evidence.
They like to trash talk deliberately, irresponsibly, and cynically, casting a pall over the future aspirations we have as a nation.
They do so because they want conflict.
They want to divide Australia.
They want to turn every single issue into us and them, winners and losers, for their own political advantage, to push their own ideology, and to push their own barrow.
They have forgotten that our compact and our social fabric is a shared one.
They tear down one part of it, and they weaken us all.
For short-term political purposes they seek to take us down the path of other countries where citizen is set against citizen, and where the bonds of our shared endeavour would begin to corrode.
What’s become clear is that today’s Labor Party under Bill Shorten no longer sees economic policy like the Labor Party used to.
They are no longer fellow travelers, I believe, on this modern Australian Compact that began roughly 40 years ago.
They no longer see this as a project they are willing to stand by.
In fact, they are willing to tear it down.
They have discarded the mindset of Bob Hawke, and they have embraced Bill Shorten’s politics of envy, and you know hypocrisy is not far behind.
In this vein, he and Labor now says millions of workers are ‘ensnared’ by workplace laws that were written by Labor, and him in particular.
The trade agreements that were endorsed by Labor as the enemy of workers.
The problem with Labor’s modern view of fairness is that it begins and ends and deals only with issues of redistribution.
Carving up that under Labor and those mindsets and those policies will only ever be a diminishing pie - less for everybody is the product of that thinking.
For the Coalition - and the Australian people in my experience - fairness has a broader meaning and a more ambitious aspiration.
It encompasses redistribution and help for those in need, and of course that’s true.
But fairness also embraces reward for effort and responsibility to have a go and be given a go.
It encompasses those who need a helping hand as well as those who work hard, get up early, take risk and employ or support others.
The goal of Labor’s anti-business, union bred, union fed and union led anti-enterprise crusade is clear.
It is to stoke resentment within our market economy and towards it, with those having a go in business and with our free enterprise system itself.
You know you can't lead a country that you want to divide, where you want to drive a wedge between employers and employees.
Where you want to drive a wedge between parents who want to send their kids to one school and parents who want to send them to another.
You can’t lead a country if you want to divide it.
And that’s why under our Government, we want to keep Australians together, and we want economic plans that keep Australians together.
None of this bodes well under Labor’s plan for middle Australia, for low income workers and those who rely on our social compact to get by.
Because when you put growth at risk - this is the real kicker - the most vulnerable to what our opponents put forward as the alternative approach are the low and middle-income earners who have a higher chance of losing their jobs when growth slows.
They are the victims, yet Labor claims they are their purpose.
It is a bitter irony, and a costly one for those Australians.
The Coalition Government is determined to champion and strengthen this compact.
We believe that only by maintaining a strong and growing economy with thriving businesses can we aspire to be a fair society.
We believe for someone to do better in Australia, someone else does not have to do worse.
You don’t have to tax some people more to tax some people less.
We don’t believe that.
We want to lift everybody up.
We believe the best form of welfare is a job.
We believe our safety net should work like a trampoline not a snare, bouncing people back up.
We believe in Australians keeping more of what they earn, so families can get ahead and can plan for the future with confidence.
That’s why in this year’s Budget, we announced one of the biggest personal income tax plan reforms we have seen in generations, completely removing a tier of the tax system.
And yes, we did it over seven years, you’ve got to do it responsibly, you can’t do it all at once.
But people should know where their Government is going, they should know what the plan is.
Our plan is you get to keep more of what you earn.
When you put more in, you have the opportunity to keep more of that, and under our plan 94 per cent of workers will pay no more than 32.
5 cents in the dollar on the extra income they earn.
We believe in that.
The Government legislated tax cuts which we have put through, which Labor will cut in half, provide I think the guarantee that Australians are looking for from their Government that it’s worth putting the effort in.
And we’re seeing the response.
We’re seeing businesses respond, we’re seeing the jobs created.
We’ve seen over 100,000 jobs in the last fiscal year created for young people in Australia.
That is the strongest year of youth employment growth in Australia’s economic history, and I know as a former Social Services Minister, if you get a young person into a job by the time they’re about 24, their chances of living the rest of their lives on welfare radically diminishes.
But if you fail, the chances of them being on welfare for the rest of their life goes through the roof.
Getting young people in jobs is a game changer for our nation, and our Government is delivering that.
Of all the things we’ve done over the last five years, I can’t nominate one greater than that.
And you know who made that happen?
Small and family businesses.
The look in the eye of a small business owner who employs that young person that they know in their community, whether it is down in Burney or up in Townsville or wherever it is.
The sense of pride that a small and family business owner has when they employ a young person and then several years later they’re at their 21st or maybe at their wedding or then they’re at their christening or Bat Mitzvah or whatever it happens to be.
That’s what family business is all about, and they are revved up and wanting to put young people in jobs.
So we’ll continue to back them with our tax cuts, which I’ve already referred to.
We’ve already lifted the definition of a small business from $2 billion to $10 billion, which gives them access to a whole raft of small business concessions to make not only their paperwork lighter but their interaction and their cash flow much more flexible.
We’ve made changes to the consumer and competition law to put them on a level playing field, we’ve introduced the Australian Financial Complaints Authority.
We’re tackling anti-phoenixing behaviour for small and family business to help them get ahead.
We’ve extended the instant asset write-off which is enabling them to invest more.
And when you’re cutting their taxes, and they can invest more in their business, and they can write these things off immediately as well, you’re allowing them to get ahead.
When it comes to the future of the economy, there really are two alternative visions.
Our proven policies that have delivered jobs, investment and opportunity, or Labor’s radically different path.
It never used to be that radically different, but there is a big difference now.
Under our Government, we have kept real expenditure growth in check at 1.
9 per cent, less than 2 per cent.
That’s the lowest level of expenditure in half a century.
Our responsible budget management has resulted in the smallest deficit in ten years and it is moving towards a balanced Budget in 2019-20.
Indeed, the release of the Monthly Financial Statements just for July and August today point to a further strengthening of our Budget position.
While this is a very early read, as Peter knows who would have seen these figures come through, the underlying cash deficit is $6.
6 billion better than where it was estimated to be at by now in the Budget and our expenditure is lower than expected – and receipts are $4.
2 billion higher resulting from a better performing economy – with more company and personal tax receipts.
The foundations of our fiscal strategy and success are keeping expenditure under control and keeping taxes under control, because that is what drives the economic growth that’s what’s supporting our revenue growth.
Labor’s plan is to walk away from controlling expenditure and jack up taxes.
Labor’s five point plan, as I said on the weekend - more tax, more tax, more tax, more tax and more tax.
That’s Labor’s five point plan, and that plan will throw a wet blanket on the Australian economy.
It’ll slowing growth and the growth that produces the revenue that pays for the services and essential services Australians rely on.
Now they say when they announce all their expenditure that it’s being funded by savings.
Savings, they say.
But they’re not savings.
They’re tax increases.
Tax increases are not savings.
Well I suppose they are in one sense, because if you’re going to fund your Budget by higher taxes, what you’re telling Australian families to do and Australian businesses to do is they’ve got to make the savings in their budgets to pay the higher taxes.
So Labor won’t control their own expenditure.
So they say to every small and family business, they say to every retiree counting on the imputation credits, they say to every small business that will be paying higher levels of tax, they say, “You make the cuts in your budgets, you make the changes to your expenditure, because we couldn’t be bothered and we can’t control expenditure.
So we’re just going to tax you more, and we’re going to outsource the savings target to your budget, to your family, to your business, to your retirement.
”
Under Labor the Macquarie dictionary will have a new definition.
Savings: taking someone else’s money and using it for yourself.
That’s would be their definition.
Even nine months out we know there is more than $200 billion in higher taxes.
Taxes on housing, taxes on savings, taxes on earnings, taxes on business, taxes on investment.
All slowing our economy down.
So when you hear the shiny promises - $10 billion for this, $5 billion for this, $100 million for this.
Every single one of those announcements are dependent on a higher tax, and you’ll pay for it.
You'll pay for it twice, actually.
You’ll pay for it in higher taxes, and you’ll pay for it in the slower growth that produces the slower economy that your job and your business depends on.
The best way we can continue to build a stronger economy is to support that Australian Compact that I have talked about.
And I must say that this Conference has actually championed over a long period of time, and I’ve got to say Paul that the Australian has championed over a very long period of time.
To support an Australian Compact that honours the hard work and efforts of its people.
I was talking to the Irish Prime Minister the other morning, we caught up.
And his party is known as the party who supports people who get up early.
I felt a real affinity with that as a party, as a political movement in this country.
And you know it’s not just the people who get up early to go to work, but it’s also the carer who gets up early to look after a parent, or a sibling, or to do the many other important jobs that are done around our society.
Because that’s what this compact is about.
It’s the connection between these two, and that’s what we passionately believe in.
It encourages and rewards those who work hard.
It gives a hand up to those who need help.
And we believe that prosperity and fairness are not mutually exclusive, they’re not an invitation for division or warfare and phony class warfare for that matter.
Rather, prosperity is the foundation of fairness and the stronger Australia that our Government is looking to lead and to drive into the future.
We believe, I believe, our Government believes in the economics of opportunity.
Bill Shorten believes in the politics of envy.
I like rituals.
I’m a keen fan of rituals.
I try and create rituals in my family, Jen and I, we have a number of rituals with our kids.
We had them when I was growing up as a kid.
They’re important because they help you connect and remind you about the things that matter most.
They connect you to your past, and they help you connect your past to your future.
Just as Indigenous peoples have been doing for centuries, thousands of years.
I like rituals.
One ritual we have as a family, as a broader family, is every year, on my grandmother’s birthday, we called her Mardie, and we loved her dearly.
She was the matriarch of the family who kept everybody together because we’re a pretty disparate family.
Very disparate.
All different views, all different walks of life, all different ages.
But we all love each other, because Mardie always brought us together.
After she passed away, we were a bit worried that, well, how are we all going to stay together.
We live such different lives.
And we had this idea.
We said let’s get together on her birthday, all of us, and we do it down on the South Coast of NSW, where a lot of my family also live.
We get together and we tell our kids who didn’t get to know Mardie, because she passed away before most of them were born.
And we tell stories about her and all the funny things she used to do.
The ladies were out there making the embroidery, there was a rug, a crochet rug they were putting together.
Mardie crocheted us all a rug as kids.
We call it the Mardie rug.
Now, we call this get together the ‘Mardie Gras’.
I know there are other events that have that name and good luck to them too.
But what it does is we get together and we remember what holds us together as a family.
The things that she taught us, the things that we loved.
This is why I’ve come here today with the next generation of the leadership of the Liberal Party.
This is an important ritual, for us to come here today where Robert Menzies came all those years ago.
To come here and pledge to that legacy, to that heritage, as a ritual.
To show the things that we believe in today are the things that he believed in then and the things we will always believe in as a Liberal Party.
After the 1943 election, it was a horror election for what were known as the non-Labor parties.
They were wiped out.
You’d think after a big election loss like that, that everyone and I’m sure quite a lot of them were, they were in the grumps and the mopes.
That ‘it’s all done’, ‘it’s all finished’, that ‘the Labor Party will run the country forever’, it ‘was all doomed’, all that sort of thing.
But Robert Menzies at that time, 75 years ago, almost to this day, it was in August 1943, he wrote to the President of what was called the Australian Council of Retailers, a fellow called Mr Lamp.
And he said this to him in his letter, he said, “There is a great opportunity if we are ready to seize it.
” That’s what he said.
Now Mr Lamp thought this was just ‘Ming’ going off again.
He was an enthusiast.
Fifteen months later, here in Albury, not far as you’ve just heard, they were putting the final touches and bringing together the formation of the Liberal Party, which has been the most successful political party at a federal level of any party.
Of any party.
And including most recently – six out of the last eight elections.
They write us off every time, and every time we come back and we come back hard.
Because of the things that we believe in.
Now on that day, when he brought everybody together, there were 18 different political organisations and parties.
Eighteen!
He got them together, and the only thing they had in common up until that point in time was what they were opposed to.
They were known as the non-Labor parties.
There was one great one, it was called the Australian Women’s National League.
The Liberal Party was founded on both the capital and the volunteers of one of the most successful Australian women’s movements in our country’s history.
They got together, and what held them together at that point loosely was what they were opposed to.
But Robert Menzies brought them here to unite them about what they believed in.
Because you can’t just be about what you’re opposed to.
You’ve got to be about what you’re for.
As a country, as a political party, as an individual, as a family.
It’s about what you’re for, not just what you’re against.
So those 18 organisations came together and Robert Menzies brought them together, and he didn’t come with a to-do list of stuff, and I haven’t come to you today with a to-do list of stuff.
All the journalists who were hoping I was going to make 17 policy announcements and all the forms are out there and you can pore over all the documents, and there’s Morrison’s manifesto.
..
No, it’s not happening today.
Sorry to disappoint you.
I’ve come to talk to you today about what’s in here, and what’s in each of their hearts and in every heart and in every mind of my team.
When Menzies came here, he didn’t bring a to-do list or a manifesto.
He brought a list of beliefs that they had agreed in Canberra a few months earlier.
Let’s talk about what some of those beliefs were that he brought together.
Menzies’ vision, and all of those who joined him, it all began and started with the individual.
It’s all about the individual, and the capacity and the value and sanctity, the inherent virtue of every single human being that has the privilege to call themselves an Australian whether by birth or by pledge.
He understood that for the individual to be successful in life, and to be able to realise what they wanted, to realise for themselves, they needed some very important things.
If they were fortunate enough, they would have a family that loved them, and not all Australians have that.
If they were fortunate enough they would have a family and the family would support them.
That is the first building block of any successful country, community, society, is family.
That’s what it is for me and Jen, that’s the family we’ve come from, and we have been blessed beyond measure when it comes to the love of family.
And my heart breaks for those Australians who don’t know that.
I hope that they will.
In one way, shape or form.
Then there's the community.
So the individual, the family, the community that you're part of – a wonderful community, Susan here has represented today.
All walks of life.
People from school, people volunteering for Emergency Services, people just getting together and crocheting.
A community supporting itself.
An individual can thrive in a community like that.
But it's more than that.
Menzies talked about the other things that were needed.
You know, he talked about a ‘comfortable home’ and an ‘affordable home’.
As important today as it was then – one of Menzies' greatest achievements was the increase in home ownership, and affordable home ownership.
I think it went from around 40 per cent to around 70 per cent.
We've slipped back a bit from there.
We need to do better on that score.
He talked about health services being accessible to all.
Adequate health services.
What's more important in regional parts of the country and remote parts of the country than ensuring we have accessible, adequate – indeed, better than adequate – health services accessible to all Australians?
He talked about having a stable job and good pay.
Those who think that the Liberal Party aren’t interested in pay – we are.
Because we know a job changes a life, and a wage changes a life and a family.
I know Kelly O'Dwyer, my Minister for Industrial Relations, which we say proudly, is very keen on ensuring that people get good wages in this country, and that they have jobs.
Menzies talked about employers and employees being on the same page.
He talked about protecting Australia from ‘aggression’ – was the phrase they used back then.
Having still been in the Second World War at the time that meant something real.
We must continue to do the same thing today.
And he talked about the importance of freedoms.
Of faith.
Of religion.
Of speech.
Of association.
That's a great place to start a party, I reckon, and it's a great place to continue to run a party from.
So, in coming here today, a new generation of Liberal leaders are embracing all of those beliefs.
They remain as relevant today as when he first said them.
This is what Robert Menzies said, though, as they broke up that meeting in Albury, he said this – I'm sorry I have to write these down – Josh has a much better memory than me.
I wasn't very good at remembering verses at Sunday school either, but Jenny was a cracker.
She used to sing them, too.
I don't think she's going to do that today...
[LAUGHS] I'll be in trouble...
Robert Menzies said this in Albury: "No party seizes the imagination of the people unless the people know the party stands for certain things.
And we'll fight for those things until the bell rings.
" Well, we're here today to affirm ourselves to those beliefs that I've just outlined, and pledge ourselves to them until the bell rings.
Until the bell rings.
Just like Robert Menzies did, and his team, and they went on to do great things for Australia.
Let's fast-forward to now.
As we go forward as a party, under a new generation of leadership.
In just 24 hours’ time, tomorrow, we will mark five years since the Coalition Government – the Liberal and National parties – formed government.
Tony Abbott led us back into government after those six years of the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd Labor administration.
I pay my respects and my honour to Tony for what was a Herculean task, to take our party from opposition back into government.
Over the last five years, both under Tony's leadership and under Malcolm Turnbull's leadership – who I also pay respect and honour to today for his three years of service, of service to his country – over those five years, we've been doing what we said we would do at that election.
We said we'd stop the boats, and we did.
We said we'd get rid of the carbon tax, and we did.
We said we would repair the budget that had been put into recklessness and mismanagement by the Labor Party, and we have been.
We said we would create a million jobs within five years, and we have.
Including 95,500 jobs for young people in the last financial year – 2017-18 – more than half of them full-time jobs, the single largest growth in youth employment in 30 years.
Nothing, as these guys know, gets me more fired up than seeing a young person get a job.
Because I know from when I was Social Services Minister, if you get a young person into a job and not on welfare, by the time they're about 22 to 24, you save them from a life on welfare.
That's generational change.
And particularly in Indigenous and remote communities, the impact is even greater.
Creating jobs is the best job there is, isn't it, Kelly?
It's the best job there is as a politician, to see Australians get into work.
And that's what we've been about.
We've opened up new markets, new trade.
I was up with the President Widodo on the weekend, and we'll finalise that most recent agreement to add to the work that was done under Tony and Malcolm, whether it was on the China Free Trade Agreement, and Simon's here carrying on that work.
Or the Japan free trade agreement.
I spoke to Prime Minister Abe last night, and we're continuing that relationship.
Whether it's the work we've done with Korea, the work we're doing in the Pacific, opening up new markets, backing small businesses and medium-sized businesses.
The biggest changes to taxation arrangements for small and medium-sized businesses in decades.
Backing small business to create jobs.
We've been meeting our emissions reduction targets in a canter.
We smashed the Kyoto 1 and 2 and, I believe, we'll absolutely be able to deal with our present target out to 2030 with no impact on electricity prices at all.
That's why we're focusing on getting electricity prices down – simply by the key measures that relate to how energy is priced, how energy is delivered, and how the regulations protect those – us as Australians from the companies who can sometimes take a bit of a loan of us.
So we are making progress.
Infrastructure.
Nation-building and congestion-busting.
Our Defence Forces back up on its way to 2 per cent of expenditure, as a share of our economy.
Rebuilding.
Rebuilding.
But you know what, that's an impressive list of achievements, and it's a list that we will continue on.
But that's the "what?
" Australians are asking me and my team more questions about the "why?"
Between now and the next election, you will hear a lot of promises.
You know that.
You've heard politicians make promises for decades.
You'll make up your mind about whether you believe those promises or not.
But I'd give you two suggestions about how you can weigh them up.
Can they pay for them?
If you don't have a strong economy, it's not worth the paper it's printed on.
A strong economy enables everything else to happen.
And the other thing is – do you trust them that they believe it?
You assess that based on their own beliefs.
Because you know, when it gets tough – I remember when we were stopping the boats and there were some tough days in that process.
Now, you're only going to do that if you really believed it.
Because there were some hard choices, and heavy burdens that you had to carry.
And it's the same in putting a budget back together, and the difficult choices.
When it's just you and your Cabinet or your other colleagues sitting a in a room, there’s no cameras, there’s no one else, and you’ve got to make those calls – what is going to make sure you deliver is whether you really believed it in the first place.
So it's about the "why?
" and I want to tell you about my "why?"
Like Menzies, no to-do list today.
This is my why.
These are the things that I believe in.
I believe in a fair go for those who have a go in this country.
I think that's what fairness means in this country.
It's not about everybody getting the same thing.
If you put in, you get to take out, and you get to keep more of what you earn.
That doesn't matter what your level of ability is.
The reason I was in Yunkar yesterday up in Brisbane with young, disabled Australians who are an inspiration, because they're having a go.
They wanted to live on their own.
They wanted to be in their own accommodation, living together, having the same choices as other young Australians.
They're having a go and they're getting a go.
If you're running a small business, you want to have a go?
You should get a go.
That’s why I think your taxes should be lower, if you’re running a small or medium-sized business, and that’s what I’ve delivered.
A fair go for those who have a go.
Secondly, we've got to look after our mates.
That's what I believe.
Every Australian matters, and that's why we have a safety net in this country – to protect people – but it works as a trampoline, not as a snare.
The best form of welfare is a job.
And our safety net – our social safety net – enables people either to bounce back up and to get back up on their feet, or it provides them with that place of comfort and support that they need during challenging times in their lives.
As Australians, we look after our mates.
If you're wondering, perhaps in the future, "What's the Prime Minister going to do when he comes to thinking about the social safety net?
About Medicare and things like that?
" Remember, my value is: we look after our mates.
As Australians, our goal is to make a contribution, not to seek one.
It doesn't matter what walk of life you're in.
We always want to look in our community – and this room is full of people who always make that choice – wanting to make a contribution rather than take one.
See where they can contribute rather than whether they can take out.
That is what creates a noble society.
That's what creates a growing and benevolent society.
A caring society.
Always looking to see where you can make the difference.
Here's a key one for me.
I think this is where there's a key difference between us and the Labor Party today.
Particularly today.
I don't believe that for you to do better, that you have to do worse.
I don't think you need to be taxed more for you to be taxed less.
I don't think that, for someone to get ahead in life, you've got to pull others down.
I believe that we should be trying to lift everybody up at once.
That we get away from this politics of envy.
I know things are tough for Australians right across the country.
Some are doing well.
I've been in drought-stricken areas and I know how tough they're doing it, I'll talk about that in a few minutes' time.
But we don't get anywhere by trying to say, "Well, it's all their fault, it’s their fault...
" "We bring them down, I can go up."
That's not fairness in Australia.
That's just ugly envy.
And I have no truck with that whatsoever.
I want to see all Australians succeed, and none at the expense of another.
That's an important value.
Now the touchstones that I have as a Prime Minister will be these, and I'll be laying these out in more direct presentations over the next few months.
I want an even stronger Australia based on the values.
We are a strong country.
We are one of the most – if not the most – remarkable country on earth, and we are all privileged to be here.
We celebrate it all the time.
But we can be even stronger if we adhere to these values.
We'll be a stronger Australia on the basis of my plan, which is about keeping our economy strong so we can guarantee the essentials that Australians rely on - the services, the Medicare.
On the weekend, we announced a new drug under the PBS.
A drug for cystic fibrosis which will extend the life of Australians by 20 years.
We were all thrilled when John (Millman) won the tennis, but I tell you what – the thing that makes me a passionate Australian is when I know that we can list a drug that does that.
We can do that because we have a strong economy.
We can do that because we're a generous society.
Our kids are growing up in a country where that happens.
That's something you can celebrate on Australia Day every time.
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
The pension.
The Disability Support Pension.
The National Disability Insurance Scheme.
All of these things are made possible because of the sweat and the work of Australians who create a strong economy that make all that possible.
That's why we keep Australia strong and we keep our economy strong.
You can't take it for granted, can you, Josh?
3.
4% growth through the year.
He's only been Treasurer for two weeks and he's already smashed my growth records.
[LAUGHS] I know Mathias would have a lot to do with that.
That's the consistency.
Unemployment coming down.
Youth unemployment down to 11.
1% – the best in five years.
That's – they’re great numbers, but it's what it enables us to do which is important.
In regional Australia, keeping the economy strong.
Let's talk about the drought for a sec.
I've been out in those drought-affected areas and I have been listening, and we have Major General Stephen Day out there doing the same thing, coordinating our response.
I've been talking to the Premiers.
And of course we've got Barnaby Joyce out there as a special envoy as well, working with the other ministers, listening hard.
It's a big task.
There are all levels – different levels of support, whether it's the feed, whether it's the farm household assistance, and making sure a form that takes seven hours to fill out – which is not good enough, it should take a tenth of that – that that can get the support where it's needed, that the water turns up where it needs to.
It's a big mobilising effort, and we're on the task.
But the one thing we need to remember is keeping those towns alive.
It's great to see it raining here in Albury today.
I pray for that rain everywhere else around the country.
And I do pray for that rain.
I'd encourage other – others who believe in the power of prayer to pray for that rain and to pray for our farmers.
Please do that.
To everyone else who doesn't like to do that, you just say, "Good on you, guys,” and “You, you go well.
" And think good thoughts for them.
Or whatever you do.
But putting the money into the towns – $1 million for every shire that's out there – to keep the money flowing in the towns, keeping those towns alive.
We can't make it rain, but we can keep those economies going until it does.
Because what really thrilled me when I went to Quilpie was this – I didn't find despair, I found hope.
They've been going through the drought for six years.
I found young families with kids, little dogs running around, kids going to school...
I found hope.
They showed me a photo of the pasture which had grass up to here 2 and a half years ago.
They said, "We know this – we know this place can work.
We've just got to get ourselves to that point, and we thank Australians for backing us in.
" But let's not think of those who are going through there, only having, dealing with despair, and I know many are, and that's why we've got the mental health counsellors out there.
But let's get give them hope as well, and let's encourage them in how they think about hope.
The second one is we're going to keep Australians safe.
Our government can always – a Liberal National Government, a Coalition Government – can always be counted on when it comes to national security.
I've already talked about the achievements of our Government and how we're continuing to work in areas of cybersecurity to keep our kids safe from predators and the work that's done by the team, and I commend Peter Dutton for the work that he's been doing, particularly.
You all know about stopping boats and things like that, which I know a bit about too.
But one of the things that Peter has done and been passionate about is making sure our kids are safe from predators, and kicking those out of this – kicking those people out of this country who would be predators against them.
They’re the people we've got to keep an eye on.
So, keeping Australians safe is important.
But there's one great principle that John Howard, I think, put it best in Sydney many years ago: "Our sovereignty in keeping Australians safe is critical,” and that means – we decide.
We decide, as he said, who comes to the country.
But we decide the things of national security that determine our future.
That's very much a key direction from my government.
And thirdly, we want to keep Australians together.
I don't want to set Australians against each other.
I want to bring them together.
I'm bringing my party together around the values and the beliefs that I've outlined to you today.
Beliefs I hold.
You know, values are things politicians talk about.
Beliefs are things that, you know, you and I talk about.
You talk about what you believe to your kids.
You talk about what you believe as a community.
And keeping Australians together to ensure that we respect our senior Australians so they have dignity in those years, that we respect our young Australians by listening to them about their hopes for the future and their concerns for the future.
Where it's environment issues in particular, my ears are very alert.
The War On Waste – yes, I have seen it, on ABC – the War On Waste.
I get it.
That's what's focusing and concerning them, so that means it matters to me too.
That's how you bring Australians together.
You take all of their concerns seriously, and you work with all of them, and you listen to them.
That's why, coming back to those fundamental freedoms of the individual, of their faith, of their association, of their right to free speech and all of these things are so critical.
Because you know, I'll finish where I started – I'll finish where Menzies started.
It all starts with the individual.
I love Australia.
Who loves Australia?
Everyone.
We all love Australia.
Of course we do.
But do we love all Australians?
That's a different question, isn't it?
Do we love all Australians?
We've got to.
That's what brings a country together.
You love all Australians if you love Australia.
Whether they've become an Australian by birth 10 generations ago, when my ancestors came – not by choice, but in chains, rocked up in 1788 – they did alright.
Or if you came last week.
If you've chosen to be here in this country, that's even more special, in some ways, isn't it?
Mathias knows that.
Let's love all Australians.
Let's love this wonderful country.
That's what I believe.
That's what you can expect from me.
That's what you can demand from me.
That's what you can hold me to account for and all of my team.
So we're just going to get on with it.
I was in a school yesterday in Bogor and I was sitting with the students and telling them a story about an incredible man I was going to meet.
I said he was like you, he sat in a classroom like this and came from a very humble background.
He worked hard and worked jobs and put himself through university and studied forestry and set up a business.
I said do you know who this is?
They all looked at me wanting to know who this incredible person was.
I said, well his picture has been in your classroom the entire time and I pointed at the President.
President Widodo is a sign of hope to every young boy and girl in this country in what he has been able to achieve and it was indeed a privilege to meet such a wonderful man as him yesterday.
President Widodo is heading to Lombok today to view the earthquake recovery efforts.
What has occurred on Lombok has been devastating more than 560 who have perished, countless homes and buildings destroyed.
We express our deep sympathies for the nation of Indonesia and the people of Lombok - Australia stands with Indonesia, as it has always done.
There is currently a team of Australian engineers and construction experts working on the ground with their Indonesian counterparts, assessing the structural damage and integrity of buildings, particularly local schools, many of which have been funded through the Australian development program.
I wanted to make a statement by coming to Indonesia on my first international visit as Prime Minister.
I also wanted to underline Australia’s commitment to regional engagement and pursuing economic opportunities through trade.
As Australia’s Prime Minister, I know that Indonesia’s success is our success.
But it is bigger than that - it is important to our regional and global economy.
As the world’s third largest democracy.
Fourth most populous nation.
The home to the largest Muslim population in the world.
The prosperity, harmony and success of Indonesia is a ‘must’ for our shared global future.
And I am delighted to be here focused on the opportunities and potential of our partnership.
Most of all, I come recognising our two countries as friends.
And we have no greater friends here than President Widodo and Vice President Kalla.
It was a real pleasure to meet President Widodo yesterday.
We elevated our ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership and announced the conclusion of negotiations to the Indonesia-Australia Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, known as IA-CEPA.
A landmark agreement and Indonesia’s most ambitious to date.
Both are real achievements and I’ll return to them shortly.
Let me start though by talking about what I want to achieve for Australia in our international engagement.
We are witnessing the most fundamental shift in global economics in 200 years.
Our region, the Indo-Pacific, is now the fulcrum of the global economy.
At the same time, unprecedented technological changes are creating new opportunities and posing unique risks.
Set against these rapid social and economic changes, our region is experiencing sharpening strategic competition.
In an era of rapid change and uncertainty, we must know who we are, what we offer and what we’re about.
There can be no wasted effort.
My Government has three clear goals to ensure an even stronger Australia: keep our economy strong so we can guarantee the essential services Australians rely on, keep Australians safe and keep Australians together.
Prosperity, security, unity.
Australia’s Foreign Policy White Paper, which as the new Prime Minister I am pleased to affirm, works to achieve these goals.
The White Paper outlines an agenda for opportunity, security and strength, working with our partners to drive better outcomes for all of us.
That is my agenda, whether here on this my first international visit and for my engagement with other world leaders.
We pursue opportunities through trade and investment because this makes our economy stronger and helps deliver jobs for Australians.
And trade brings opportunities for our partners, as President Widodo affirmed yesterday when discussing the potential for trade and investment between Australia and Indonesia.
We pursue security with our neighbours to keep Australia and Australians safe and our region secure and open.
And by working with partners, we keep their citizens safe and secure.
We are committed to close cooperation with Indonesia and others to tackle common threats such as terrorism.
We are steadfast in strengthening our alliance with the United States.
We will deepen our engagement with our regional partners like Indonesia, India and Japan to keep the Indo-Pacific secure, prosperous, open and inclusive.
I am committed to deepening our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with China, which has brought great benefit to both sides.
Australia will remain a leading security and economic partner of ASEAN.
We had a very successful ASEAN Australia Summit in Sydney in March.
I will build on that foundation because ASEAN sits at the centre of Australia’s vision for the Indo-Pacific.
Together we must build our region’s resilience to all forms of coercion and commit to protecting the rights of all states.
My Government will boost further our engagement with our partners in the Pacific, with whom we agree a new security declaration next week.
The peoples of the Pacific hold a very special place in our regional family.
There is a special affection and closeness between us that enables us to speak warmly but candidly with each other to address the many challenges and opportunities that we face together.
The key is we will always face them together.
At the Pacific Island Forum Leaders meeting next week in Nauru we will continue Australia’s walk together with our Pacific friends.
We will keep our commitments and do all we can to protect and preserve the sustainability, prosperity and security of the Pacific family of nations, as we always have.
While I will be a reluctant absence at next week’s meeting, I look forward to remedying this when we gather together at the time of the APEC meeting in Port Moresby.
We will also work with others around the globe to guard the institutions and rules that keep markets open, keep the world safe and help build a better future for the next generation.
To be successful and influential internationally, Australia needs to be strong and united at home.
Our democracy, our economy, our multicultural society and our people give us the confidence and strength to make our way in the world.
We are pragmatic and committed to action.
We come to get things done.
We also come with respect to listen and to learn.
As a partner and a friend, we are committed to doing the heavy lifting when required, to deliver for our people in partnership with our friends and neighbours.
Under my leadership, the Australian Government will continue to work with Indonesia and our other partners to pursue common interests.
Indeed Australia has no more important partner in our region than Indonesia.
I want to work together to make our economies stronger, to make our people safer and to keep our people together.
One thing both Australians and Indonesians know is that we can’t achieve prosperity without security — one underpins the other.
That has never been more true than it is today.
Which is why on this visit President Widodo and I have elevated the formal status of the relationship between our countries.
We’re already partners.
But this new agreement— the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership — reflects the new ambition we share for our relationship and our region, and the increasing importance each of us places on working together.
This new partnership gives Australia and Indonesia the framework to build even closer ties — to boost prosperity for our people, strengthen the connections between our communities and increase security not just for us, but across the Indo-Pacific.
As Australia’s Prime Minister, I’m proud of our shared efforts to make the world, and our region, safer.
This agreement will ensure we work together more closely than ever to keep the oceans that surround us open to trade and free from trans-national crime.
We will step up our cyber security cooperation, protecting our growing digital economies from the scourge of cybercrime.
Indonesia and Australia are together leading the fight against terrorism and transnational crime in our region.
As co-chairs of the sub-regional meeting on Counter-Terrorism and the Bali Process on People Smuggling our partnership is having a genuine impact.
We are achieving so much more together than what either of us could do alone.
But we must be ever vigilant.
Terrorists continue to seek new ways to spread fear and violence.
As the tragic bombings so recently in Surabaya show us, the threat of self-radicalisation is real and it is serious.
We must continue to stand as one against this ideology of hate.
Indonesia, like Australia, understands that there is “unity in diversity” and that our societies are strengthened by embracing a wide range of faiths and cultures.
We must continue to learn from each other.
Connections between our faith communities and young people, through initiatives such as the New Colombo Plan and Muslim Exchange Program, have brought depth and resilience to our relationship and have our support.
We need to make much more of these people-to-people and community contacts, especially among our young people.
As Prime Minister I will strongly encourage young Australians to embrace the opportunities offered by our dynamic, diverse neighbour to the north.
Our strategic engagement underpins our economic prosperity and every year our economies are becoming more integrated.
But there’s still a huge amount of untapped potential.
I don’t think anyone in this room would disagree that for two economies the size of ours, two G20 nations, our trade and investment relationship has been underdone.
I am here to put more grunt into the economic relationship.
That is why IA-CEPA is so important.
IA-CEPA is not a transaction; it is a partnership.
It will open the door to a new era of opportunities for Australian and Indonesian business.
Whether in agriculture and manufacturing, services or investment, this new agreement lays a foundation to realise the economic potential of our partnership.
It will create jobs and it will create wealth for both countries.
Ninety-nine per cent of Australia’s goods exports will be able to enter Indonesia duty free or with significantly improved preferential arrangements.
And all of Indonesia’s exports will enter Australia without tariffs or tax – which means more exports for Indonesia and cheaper inputs for Australian business.
Because we know from first-hand experience that free trade works — it has underpinned Australia’s economic success for more than half a century and fuelled Asia’s rapid growth.
It will enable companies like BlueScope, Telstra, Elders, Astra, Indofood and Tatalogam to create new opportunities — shared opportunities.
Just take Bluescope as an example.
Once this agreement is ratified, the raw materials Bluescope Indonesia needs from Australia to produce its high-quality steel will be more affordable and supply will be more reliable.
That means Bluescope’s manufacturing facilities in Indonesia, and other Indonesian steel manufacturers, will be better able to supply markets across the region – further boosting the attractiveness of Indonesia as an investment destination and creating more jobs and economic opportunities in both Indonesia and Australia.
In agriculture, Australian cattle producers will benefit from greater certainty, while Indonesia will have greater food security and cheaper beef prices, as well as the space to continue to build its own cattle production.
Prospects are better for investors like Jetstar, which is now expanding its presence with more flights, jobs and training in Indonesia.
Because the driving principle of these agreements, just like the Australian concept of a fair go, is that another country does not have to be worse off to make Australians better off.
When we reduce barriers to trade, we create win-win outcomes.
Both Indonesians and Australians can be, and will be, better off.
That’s how the global trading system works.
We both gain from trade and investment.
The agreement is a win for both sides as we prosper together.
For example, Australian majority-owned vocational educational providers will be able to partner with Indonesian firms, giving young Indonesians the chance to gain internationally competitive skills, and Indonesia the opportunity to make the most of its young and dynamic workforce.
But this agreement isn’t only about the goods and services that we buy and sell.
Importantly, it will give Australian investors greater certainty in Indonesia and promote more two-way investment.
The hardest part is over – we’ve finished the negotiation.
We’ve both still got some legal and technical details to finish and domestic processes to work through, but we want the agreement signed and up and running in the months ahead.
Before I conclude, may I personally thank Vice President Kalla for your decisive leadership in bringing this agreement to fruition.
I’d also like to thank the business community in both countries for your strong support, including the Indonesia-Australia Business Partnership Group, which played such an important role in the negotiations.
The people at the coal face of both our economies know that with perseverance we can make it.
As partners, we need to deliver for our people to make most of the opportunity and potential between us.
Our partnership has a promising future built on a long history of cooperation, going back to the origin of Indonesia as an independent nation.
It’s a fact perhaps lost to time for many, that Australia was one of Indonesia’s strongest supporters in its bid for independence.
So strong, in fact, that President Sukarno chose Australia to represent Indonesia in the United Nations negotiations in the lead up to Independence.
It was an honour for Australia then, and remains so today, to have been present at the birth of modern Indonesia.
And so to all of you here today and all of the people of Indonesia, on behalf of all Australians I say: Ayo!
Kita maju bersama.
C’mon lets go forward together.
Thank you — thank you for your friendship in the past, thank you for welcoming me here today as Australia’s Prime Minister, and thank you being our trusted partner in the exciting journey ahead.
Terimah Kasih.
As I conclude can I ask you to do one thing?
Think about the kids in the local school where you live - in your kampong, in your part of Sydney or Perth.
What we have done here in this agreement was for them.
It will long outlast any of us in this room today and we can feel good about that.
oday, I want to talk about what I like to call the 'Fair Go Economy' that we have here in Australia.
When I was working in border protection years ago, both in opposition and in government, Senator Jim Molan, former Major-General Jim Molan, had a defence military maxim he explained to me.
He said, 'Scott, you've got to have a plan but understand that no plan ever survives contact with the enemy'.
Now, he wasn't arguing against having a plan, rather to understand what a plan does.
How it works to achieve what you're seeking to achieve.
How it actually draws people together, sets out a clear objective, understands your strengths, your weaknesses, understands the objective, gets people focused on it, so when the contact comes, people know how to respond and you yourself know how to respond in leading a process to achieve that outcome.
In this year's Budget I announced a plan for a stronger economy and there are many components of that plan.
I know that making tax rates more competitive for business has been the one that most people have talked about.
But this is a very wide-ranging plan.
Investing in our public research infrastructure, championing trade all around the world, investing in infrastructure, whether it's Tulla Rail or the Frankston to Baxter line or whatever it happens to be, our investments in infrastructure are a huge part of that plan.
The medical industry, the defence industry, lower personal income tax and so on.
These are all part of what is a broad-ranging plan, the overwhelming majority of which has been legislated, but there are some items still to go.
The other thing about plans when it comes to the military, or in the corporate world or even in sport - my beloved Sharks will be down here in Melbourne on Sunday – you don't know what I'm talking about, it's called rugby league.
They're coming down on Sunday, they'll have a plan.
But I'll tell you what they'll also have, just as our military do, they have a code; they have a set of values about how they play the game and how they conduct themselves.
The values that underpin your plan, what you believe in, that frames your plan, that chooses your objective, that frames how you deal with challenges, that's even more important than a plan.
So I've got a few questions for you today, three in fact.
Do you believe in a fair go for those who have a go?
Do you believe, that to do better in this country someone else has to do worse?
Or to put it the other way, do you believe for you to do better no one else has to do worse?
Do you believe the money the government spends is yours?
Now if you've answered yes to all of those three questions, or any part thereof, we're on the same page.
We're on the same side when it comes to how we are seeking to drive economic policy in this country.
You know Australia is a place, over centuries, with the exception of our first Australians, we've all come from somewhere else.
It doesn't matter if it was ten generations ago, or you're the first generation that was here, we've all come from somewhere else at some point.
Australia has a set of values of people who had the opportunity to start again.
That completely informs our outlook on the world and life here in our country.
We're not the US; we weren't founded by pilgrims.
That's an interesting story, that's their story though, it's not ours.
We're not the UK, we're not Europe, we're not Asia.
We're the place where people came and had the opportunity, in most cases coming to seek it, to start again.
In the case of my family, it was compulsory when they turned up in Sydney in 1788.
But they did get that opportunity.
They might not have been looking for it, but they got it, and they went on to live a life that they could never have dreamed of had they remained back in the UK at that time, and all those who followed them since.
And you know, we're a country that refuses to be denied our prosperity.
We are such a resilient bunch.
The Global Financial Crisis, the mining investment booms, 30 per cent falls in the terms of trade, SARS, bird-flu, all of these things have happened in the last 27 years.
And we've remained in continuous growth over that period of time.
Today, there are less people in both absolute and relative poverty than when we were first elected in 2013.
And in fact the most recent HILDA Survey shows that those on the bottom 10 per cent of incomes in this country, compared to average wages, have lifted, and it is true that those in the top 10 have actually come back a bit.
This 'Fair Go Economy' is continuing to produce a lot of fair results I would argue very strongly.
But it's based on some clear principles.
As a country we were not going to be denied our prosperity and opportunity because we had the old world rules and the old culture rules of where we may have come from imposed on how we were going to operate here in Australia.
Our country is about saying that's for the rest of the world.
In this country your opportunity won't be defined by those old discriminatory rules or practices.
In this country if you have a go, you'll get a go.
And that is a fundamental principle that I think sits at the heart of how we operate as citizens, as a society, and indeed as an economy.
I think of it as a fair go contract that has underwritten our incredible achievements as a country.
A fair go contract that actually starts with personal responsibility.
That's what comes first.
Others talk about it, about mutual obligation, but this fair go contract says you have a role in all of this, it won't just turn up.
This principle of a fair go for those who have a go is ingrained in the economic plan that we've been setting out for this country now for several years and is getting results I would hasten to add.
Whether it's the record jobs growth that we experienced last year, and we continue to enjoy strong jobs growth; whether it's the closing of that distance, as I said, in terms of incomes, whether it's the strong investment led growth putting us at the top of the pack in advanced economies all around the world; whether it's the rebound in non-mining investment which is running at 10 per cent on the last National Accounts, five times the long run average, eight consecutive quarters - our plan is getting these results because we believe in these principal values.
A fair go for those who have a go means we believe in lower taxes.
Everyone should keep more of what they earn.
We fundamentally believe this.
This is why, in this year's Budget I handed down a personal tax plan.
I appreciate you would like it to be more and I appreciate that there are more things you would like to have done but I can guarantee every opportunity this government has had to genuinely reduce taxes, and particularly personal income taxes, we've taken with both hands.
And we've fought for it.
You'll remember the personal tax plan, immediate relief for those on lower incomes.
Immediate relief through a tax refund.
Lifting the thresholds within the tax system to protect against bracket creep over the next decade.
Removing one entire tax threshold to ensure that 94 per cent of Australians will not face a marginal tax rate greater that 32.
5 cents.
Now when was the last time you saw that happen?
That is a big change.
We'd all like even bigger changes I'm sure, but we believe in people keeping more of what they earn.
Because we think that's what a fair go means for those who are having a go.
Now we also believe, in accordance with this principal, that the best form of welfare is a job, and last year we had 95,000 young Australians, over the last fiscal year, get a job.
That is the strongest growth in youth employment in a fiscal year in 30 years since 1989.
In my first Budget I outlined a plan called PaTH.
That PaTH programme has to date put 27,000 young people, who are longer term unemployed, in a job.
Now this is transformative stuff.
If a young person gets into a job and off welfare between the ages of about 22 and 25, the chances of them returning to welfare reduce dramatically.
You're not just saving on welfare now; you're saving on welfare over a lifetime.
But more importantly than that, you're transforming an Australian's entire trajectory over the course of their life.
So we think the best thing we can do for young people is to get them into jobs.
And that's why we have programmes like PaTH.
It's not just for young people.
In this year's Budget that fair go for those who have a go extended to older generations.
We've applied exactly the same wage subsidies, but this time to get older Australians into jobs.
Through the pension work bonus, we've made sure those who are advancing in age can actually earn more, without it impacting entitlements they might have under the pension and in particular for those who generate income from a business.
Previously business income was not counted.
You can now earn $7,500 from your business as an older person without impacting your pension or other entitlements.
So whether you're a young Australian, whether you're an older Australian, whether you're an Australian working right now of middle age - we believe that the best security we can provide you is the security of a job, and when you earn you'll keep more of what you earn.
In this year's Budget I talked about backing business to invest and create more jobs.
Since we introduced the angel investing arrangements back in the 2016 Budget, 340 companies have benefited from that.
$300 million in additional investment.
It's a 20 per cent tax offset capped at $200,000 per investor and a 10 year capital gains tax exemption.
Through the early stage venture capital investor limited partnership arrangements we've seen investment go from $620 million to $1 billion in just one year.
Over 300,000 new businesses started up in 2016-17 and entry rates of businesses going in are up to 15 per cent and exit rates are down to 12 per cent.
We're backing businesses to create businesses.
We're doing that through a raft of measures whether it's specifically tailored to start-up tax arrangements or it's in lowering the taxes for small to medium sized businesses which is already legislated for businesses up to $50 million; expanding the definition of a small business to $2 million to $10 million, giving them access to the instant asset write off, pool depreciation and easier GST; and we've got a three page GST form down to three questions.
These things are happening for small business right now.
The anti-phoenixing measures that Kelly championed in this year's budget are all about supporting small businesses that have been burned by the unscrupulous, unethical and illegal practices of phoenixing operations which deny them what they earnt.
We believe people should keep more of what they earn when it comes to the tax system, and when it comes to applying the rule of law.
We believe in an immigration system that brings people to Australia who want to make a contribution and not take one.
It's our fair go contract that underpins our fair go economy.
It's not about ensuring everybody gets the same.
The same outcomes, a vanilla economy.
It's one that breathes life into incentive and encourages people.
It's not about equal outcomes, it's about equal opportunities.
In our fair go economy someone does not have to do worse for you to do better.
The Liberal Party, National Party, Turnbull Government completely reject the politics of envy.
This is a gnawing cancer in our polity, society and in the economy and we must call it out.
I get irritated when I hear commentators talking about how clever it is.
It's not clever, it's un-Australian.
It violates a core principal that somehow someone has to be punished for someone else to do better.
That's not what we believe as Liberals.
I pointed out just prior to this year's Budget, before we introduced our personal tax plan, that 14.
3 per cent of taxpayers are in the highest tax bracket in Australia.
They pay on average $84,600 each in tax.
That's more than virtually most Australians earn in total.
They pay 30.
3 per cent of the tax bill.
Go to the next bracket: 19.
3 per cent, paying on average $30,500 each and they account for 34.
8 per cent.
So you've got one quarter of the population paying around two thirds of the tax.
And the Labor party thinks they should be paying more.
And if Labor is elected, they would pay more.
Labor have pledged to strip away $70 billion of personal tax relief from Australians.
Tax relief that has been legislated by our parliament.
Envy politics is flat-earth economics.
It focuses on what you carve up rather than how you grow it.
That always ends with everyone getting less and not just less in their pocket.
Without a stronger economy and focusing on a stronger economy, we can't increase funding for hospitals for example.
The GST is a consumption tax.
If consumption falls – guess what happens to the tax intake – it falls.
That's less money for hospitals, for schools, for essential law and order which is obviously urgently needed here in Victoria.
A stronger economy delivers those services.
To focus, as Labor does, on the carve up rather than growing it, penalises those essential services – Medicare, hospitals, the pension, affordable medicines.
All of these depend on the values I'm talking about here today, which are rejected by the Labor party.
But we reject the politics of envy and we embrace the economics of opportunity.
It's what's driving their thinking on tax.
If you're doing well, you're the problem.
If you're supporting your family, running your business, you're the problem – according to Labor when I read their tax plan.
Higher taxes on houses, higher taxes on investing, on capital gains tax, up 50 per cent on everything, abolishing negative gearing as we know it.
Trusts and family businesses, they're in Labor's sights.
Higher income taxes, higher taxes on savings, higher taxes on retirees by the disgraceful removal of the refundable tax credits they receive for investing in Australian businesses.
Higher business taxes making all businesses less competitive.
Don't kid yourself.
Our law brings small business tax rates down to 25 per cent – that's the law.
Bill Shorten will reverse that legislation and put those taxes back up.
Envy is the enemy of a stronger economy and that's why we reject the politics of envy.
It weakens our economy and it weakens our ability to deliver the services that rely on it.
Finally, let me make this point: it's your money that Government spends.
When you believe that, it changes how you go about spending it and how you go about raising it.
When we provide personal tax relief we don't talk about it costing us.
See the way I understand tax is you pay it to the Government.
But the way Labor talks about it, they are entitling you to keep more of your own money and it's an expense on the Government's balance sheet.
That's not what it is.
It's your money, you earned it.
And our view is that taxes should be lower.
If you're worried, as I suspect many in this room are, about limiting the role and reach of Government into your life, into your economy, into your society, into your community, then you must limit how much you're going to tax the economy.
That's what we did in this year's Budget because we believe this.
If you want to control what the government spends, control what the government taxes.
We are the first Government to say that we will have, as a fiscal policy, a cap on the share of tax in the economy at 23.
9 per cent, which is based on the period post the implementation of the GST and commencement of the GFC.
If you have an unconstrained view on taxes there is an unconstrained view on how big you are prepared to let government get.
As Liberals we don't share that view.
That's why we think we should limit how much tax is collected out of the economy.
We think taxes when they get too high slow the economy down.
Under our policies it is 23.
9 per cent.
At the last election, Labor's policies were going to get them to 25.
7 per cent, and that's before the things that I mentioned a few minutes ago.
They'll clear 26 per cent in a canter.
That's about $50 billion extra in taxes every year.
What's that going to do to the economy?
That's why we think taxes should be lower, and that's why we think taxes should be constrained, and it's also why we believe that we must live within our means.
In this year's Budget we said the Budget would be coming back into balance in 2019-20, one year in advance.
$30 billion of net debt will be paid down over the next four years, around $230 billion over the next ten years on our plans.
We are balancing the Budget, paying down debt, providing for the future by investing wisely, whether it's in infrastructure, our schools, our hospitals, and doing that in an affordable and a sustainable way on a tax base that does not tear away and strip away at the economy that is the lifeblood of providing these services.
The beliefs that I outline underpin our plan for a strong economy.
They keep the fair go economy dream alive.
That's my dream.
A fair go economy, one that honours our sacrifice and heritage that has bequested to us what we have here today, and to honour the principles that got us there, to not turn our back on them.
We don't want to go down the Corbyn path, to not go down that dark path that would muffle and suffocate our economy.
We have a very different view as Liberals.
We embrace the economics of opportunity and personal responsibility.
We reject the politics of envy and we accept the responsibility of careful and disciplined financial and budget management.
That's our plan, that's our belief, that's what is up for grabs over the next nine months, that's the choice Australians are going to have to make.
We feel very firm in our convictions and beliefs that inform how we are changing and driving Australia forward for the better.
hange within the banking and financial sector is not on its way.
It's already here and it's now.
As a Government we haven't been waiting or delaying our action.
The disruptive forces of technology, the arrival of nimble new players, the evolution of data use, and the empowerment of the customer are combining to upend traditional banking products, services and transactions the world over.
The use of artificial intelligence and access to real-time data and analytics.
The growth of peer-to-peer lenders that bypass traditional lenders.
The use of blockchain technology, distributed ledgers and RegTech.
The personalisation of services.
The pace of change has been so profound, regulations have timed out, regulatory authorities have often been caught on the back foot, as innovation ploughs headlong into traditional systems and old mindsets.
Large institutions and banks have been forced to react and invest in order to protect their dominant market positions, under the threat of emerging game-changers and entrepreneurs accustomed to risk.
Innovate or face diminishing returns.
We believe this change is not only welcome, but overdue.
The Turnbull Government has long embraced Australia's financial future and prepared for it, legislating a comprehensive array of reforms to make our banking and finance sector stronger, fairer, more accountable, and more competitive.
These regulatory reforms were not merely about keeping pace with the rapid change occurring in this space across the globe, but were designed to put us a step ahead of the pack.
Yet without impacting upon stability of our banking and finance system.
Of course we are not alone in pursuing these vital, sector-wide reforms.
I have admired what the UK authorities set in train after the calamity the Global Financial Crisis wrecked on its economy and its financial system.
And we have since been aligning our interests and ideals in this space; swapping notes, sharing ideas, and ensuring our mechanisms are similarly targeted.
For me this has involved direct engagement with both Chancellors Osborne and Hammond, Governor Carney, the FCA, other relevant agencies, banks themselves, FinTech pioneers and other key operators and innovators on the UK scene.
Our responses to everything from bank misconduct and the need for greater accountability of executives, right through to the greater use of data, and the championing of FinTechs has been lock-step.
Our Banking Executive Accountability Regime drew its inspiration from the Senior Managers and Certification Regime employed in the UK - both squarely aimed at bringing individual responsibility and accountability to the governance of our banks.
Across both regimes, the consequences for executives and their banks for not meeting community standards will now be costly to the banks bottom line and to their individual careers.
They are now individually and personally accountable.
This is what the public now expects.
And that is what the Turnbull Government is delivering.
Continuing this theme of collaboration, in March we signed a FinTech Bridge to provide new opportunities for Australian FinTechs to grow by accessing a UK market where innovative companies are clearly thriving.
And of course offer the same invitation to UK FinTechs to spread their wings into the Asia-Pacific via Australia.
UK FinTechs last year generated £7 billion in revenue, raised £1.
3 billion of investment and employed over 61,000 people.
The opportunities for our FinTechs to engage with this sector are enormous.
The first quarterly meeting under the FinTech Bridge at government-to-government level was held this week which successfully brought together officials from Treasury, ASIC, Austrade and their UK counterparts.
And I look forward to seeing the significant outcomes from these deepening ties between the Australian and UK Governments, regulatory agencies, trade and investment authorities and industry bodies, further cementing the positions of Australia and the UK as leading global FinTech centres.
But for all the success of these reforms so far, the one that matters most in the minds of customers is will I get a better deal?
Regulation has importantly played a pivotal role in making our banking and financial system stronger, in a prudential sense.
This has always been the prudential regulators job, and I have nothing but praise for the work of APRA and Wayne Byers to this end.
But this hasn't necessarily made the customer any stronger.
It is fair to say, nor was it likely it wasn't designed to.
This does not reflect poorly on regulators, but the regulations and goals we task them to deliver and perform against.
Too often we, the customers, have also become complicit in allowing the deck to be stacked against us.
You can guarantee it, the more passive a customer is, the worse deal they are going to get.
I believe that real market power needs to be put back in the hands of the customer.
Power to change their circumstances.
Power to get a better deal on their mortgage, on their credit card, on their business loan.
Power to change the system.
Power to control their own data and reap the value of its use, rather than those who have been using it for decades, or even more recently through the most ad a fed digital business models, for their own advantage and not yours.
This is what the Turnbull Government is committed to as a matter of conviction and principle.
That is why we are doing what we are doing.
And we the customers have a role to play in this.
Customers must stop being passengers and bystanders in their own cause.
I am passionate about giving customers more power, that is what makes markets more competitive.
This is as true for banking as it is for electricity, gas, water insurance, superannuation, telcos and the list goes on.
But there is no one more committed to looking after your interest than you.
You can't take yourself out of the game, and listen to those who want to infantilize you by promising a cotton wool regulatory system, with nanny-like regulators, that rather than awakening and empowering your consumer power, will rock you off to sleep.
Beware those promising to protect you.
Not only do they usually fail, not only do they cruelly and falsely raise your hopes with vain promises of being shielded or being compensated only to disappoint you.
But by convincing you to stand down and leave it to them or others, because they think they know what's better for you than you, they are only making you more vulnerable, not less.
They are disarming the best weapon you have to get the best deal, you.
While the Government can create an environment that gives you better tools to make an informed decision, it is only you as a customer who can actually make that decision.
And it is you who lives with the outcomes.
It's the bacon and egg principle, the chicken is involved but the pig is committed.
To further this cause, today I am releasing the Productivity Commission's final report into Competition in the Australian Financial System.
This report complements the draft ACCC inquiry into residential mortgage pricing which is due to be finalised in November, and the Financial System Inquiry that has now been substantially implemented.
Today I want to pick up some of the themes touched on in the report and highlight what the Turnbull Government is doing to put power in the hands of the customer.
Firstly, ensuring customers get the information they need to make informed choices is both critical to a competitive market and critical for customers to get a better deal.
And we are not just talking about more disclosure - we need better disclosure.
Banking and financial regulation has had a dulling effect on customers.
The customer has become disengaged from the process and the detail, evidenced by the fact that half of Australia's banking customers still bank with their first-ever bank.
Only one in three customers have thought about switching banks in the last two years.
That inertia, similar to what we have seen with households and their electricity and gas providers and super funds, is placing the clamps on genuine competition in the financial sector.
And the big players know it.
Complexity and inertia is their friend.
The evidence from the Productivity Commission is that customers are not in a position where they are armed with the right information to make the right decisions for them.
They aren't in possession of the detail that accurately shows what kind of deal or discount they are receiving, and are therefore unable to compare precisely with other products in the market or what other customers in their circumstances are getting.
But you also must question whether customers are really seeking it out.
Or are they just expecting it to rock up at their door.
"It's someone else's job to ensure that I know all these things".
But don't forget those who benefit from keeping you on a bad deal are depending on you not asking the question or you relying on someone else to ask it for you.
But the person most responsible for asking that question and getting that information is you.
And again it is you that lives with the consequences.
As a Government we believe in personal responsibility, in fact we are counting on it.
For the system to be fair and effective it depends on customers understanding, accepting and acting on that responsibility.
That said, after having enlisted you in your own interest, as the Government it's our job to ensure you can get access to all the things you need to make the right decisions for you.
There is no genuine transparency around product and pricing, and whether done implicitly or not, the industry has created these complexities, often aided by regulation designed to protect the regulator rather than the customer, that do nothing for the customer but leave them in the dark and more dependent upon advice, or that just makes them walk away and say it's all too hard.
The solution is certainly not more products.
Already customers can choose from almost 4000 different residential property loans and more than 250 different credit cards.
It is an absolute information overload of products that sound similar and appear to cost similarly - or as the PC describes: "a blizzard of barely differentiated products''.
Why switch when everything else seems the same.
This encyclopaedia of similar products, combined with the lack of transparency around pricing, opens up the door for financial institutions to exploit customer loyalty.
Too often it's the loyal customers that are left to foot the bill through higher premiums and higher interest rates when financial institutions offer temporary discounts to lure in new customers.
For example, the PC reports that more than 15 per cent of existing home loan customers are paying the average variable rate on their home loan.
Typically, a new home loan customer can undercut that rate by around 0.
4 percentage points.
The price of loyalty?
Between $66 to $87 per month on the average home loan balance.
In its Residential mortgage price inquiry, the ACCC found banks had a tailored approach to discounting - offering larger discounts to borrowers who were likely to consider switching, while offering smaller discounts to more loyal customers.
The solution is the empowerment of the customer; reactivating them in their own cause, giving them better information, giving them access to their own data, and giving them the chance to go out and get a better deal.
We are now less than 12 months away from the phased introduction of Open Banking in this country - a monumental step towards giving power back to the customer.
Power in the form of your own data.
This is the revolution coming to banking customers courtesy of the Consumer Data Right the Turnbull Government set in train in the 2017-18 Budget in which banking is the first industry to adopt it:
All because you have been armed with your own data.
This shifts the paradigm - financial institutions no longer setting the rules and demanding customers adhere to their purposes, but customers making the demands, setting the rules and forcing banks to react.
Or watch as a new player seizes that opportunity.
Open Banking will be a game-changer.
Granting third-party access to your data securely will also make the process of switching between banks less painful and help overcome the 'hassle factor'.
More choice, more competition and importantly, more power.
Earlier this year I handed down the Open Banking report undertaken by Scott Farrell, which looked at the best way to put an Open Banking framework in place in Australia.
It was so informative, Cabinet has adopted all of the report's 50 recommendations, which not only mapped out the practicalities of the model and how it would generate competition and help customers, but also the requirements to build strong safeguards that protect customers' privacy and give Australians confidence in the system.
Importantly, the report stated the following: "markets work most efficiently when customers are informed (and) there is transparency in pricing and in the quality of available products and services.
"
Implementing Open Banking is part of the broader Consumer Data Right we are committing to legislation, that has the potential to see customer-driven data sharing being extended to energy and telecommunications.
Secondly, to put more power in the hands of the customer, we need more players, more innovators, and a level field upon which to play.
As is the case in the UK, our banking and insurance markets are dominated by a handful of players - four banks that own more than 75 per cent of the market for loans, personal deposits and credit cards; four insurance giants that have in excess of 80 per cent share of the market for lenders mortgage insurance and travel insurance.
An entrenched, dominant market position.
But that doesn't mean competition is weak as a result.
It is the exploitation of that power that has the potential to constrain competition and deliver a poor outcome to customers.
The PC notes that because of the unique and dominant position the major banks have in the market, they have been able to insulate themselves from competition and largely bat away major economic shocks like the GFC without taking a significant hit to their profits.
But they go further.
"There is evidence that they have sustained prices above competitive levels, offered inferior quality products to some groups of customers, subsumed much of the broker industry and taken action that would inhibit the expansion of smaller competitors in some markets.
All are indicators of the use of market power to the detriment of customers,'' the report claims.
We need our banks strong, stable and profitable.
They provide a foundation for our economy, the opportunity, jobs, essential services and incomes that depend on a strong economy.
But we also need to ensure that competition isn't being constrained and the customers aren't getting the raw end of the stick.
It is not merely the size and established presence that gives our four big banks market dominance.
They benefit from perceptions of government support that in effect lower their funding costs; they benefit from having lower operating costs and more sources of funding; and they benefit from integrating their myriad of services, allowing them to bundle and cross-subsidise.
The answer begins, but certainly doesn't end, with more players in the market.
It is about creating a level playing field so competition can thrive.
Which is why our Government passed legislation this year to lift the prohibition on the use of the word 'bank'.
Previously, only ADIs with more than $50 million in capital could call themselves a bank.
This vital change opened the door for 58 ADIs in Australia to call themselves a bank, and thereby boosting their market appeal and their ability to secure cheaper funds.
The Government has also established a pathway for new entrants to be licensed as an ADI.
When similar changes were introduced in the UK in 2013, more than 60 new 'challenger' banks piled into the market, offering rates that undercut the major lenders, and a seamless customer experience that was clearly a cut above.
Lenders like Monzo, Tandem and Starling, who billed themselves as 'mobile first', and forced the major banks to not only slash their interest rates and product pricing, but change the way they deal with their customers.
The game had changed.
It is our job to create and foster an environment where these exciting FinTech firms can thrive and compete on fairer terms with the big lenders, and can forge their own path.
This includes ensuring that Fintechs can get access to capital at a competitive rate from Australian investors and superannuation funds and not have to go overseas.
It is also means ensuring that the national payments platform can reach its potential by ensuring that it can be accessed by all market participants and enhances competition, as recommended by the PC today.
We have been methodically positioning Australia to springboard and join the UK at the forefront of FinTech development and adoption around the world and especially here in the Asia-Pacific, leading the world in payment innovations, RegTech and blockchain.
We are implementing an enhanced regulatory sandbox that will give entrepreneurs and innovators a safe way of testing and developing ideas in a controlled environment, without the immediate hassles around the costs of licensing.
We have established an equity crowdfunding regime, allowing unlisted public companies to raise up to $5 million each year directly from retail investors; putting flight to those bright ideas.
And we have legislation currently before the parliament to extend this to proprietary companies.
We have introduced legislation in the Senate to enable Comprehensive Credit Reporting, giving lenders access to a full set of data that will enable them to better assess the credit risk of customers.
This is all in addition to our tax incentives for angel investors, the launch of the National Payments Platform that gives customers real-time transactions, both peer-to-peer and to businesses, all through your mobile phone, and the work we are doing to develop digital identities.
All measures aimed squarely at ramping up our FinTech capabilities, for the betterment and empowerment of the customer.
And finally, even empowered customers should have a reliable safety net.
To be protected from the misconduct and predatory behaviour that has dogged our banks and institutions.
To be protected from banking and financial products that make customers feel like they are being exploited and ripped off.
ASIC has been particularly active in this space, exposing add-on insurance products that fail to provide adequate protection, or provide consumers with claims that are a tiny share of what they had paid in premiums.
For example, consumers on average receive back in claims between 83-98 cents in every dollar of premiums paid for car insurance, falling as low as 42c for home insurance.
For add-on insurance sold by car dealers - insurance that customers have not sought and rarely need - they receive back a paltry 9c.
Last year we acted swiftly to protect vulnerable Australians from some of the predatory behaviour we were seeing in the credit card market that were entrenching borrowers in a cycle of debt.
Under those changes, credit card affordability assessments will be done on a customer's ability to repay the full credit limit within a reasonable period, not just the minimum repayment.
There will be no more unsolicited offers of credit limit increases, and customers will be able to cancel their card electronically.
In addition to our Banking Executive Accountability Regime, we are also expanding ASIC's powers and penalties.
The reforms made to the penalties represent the most significant increases to the maximum civil penalties, in some instances, in more than 20 years.
The Government will continue to look for opportunities to build on the existing framework to ensure customers trust the financial system.
For example, the concept of a Principal Integrity Officer that is mentioned in the PC Report is an interesting one that we will give very serious consideration.
It has potentially far greater application than recommended and can work in well with the BEAR regime.
These roles are effectively already being performed in banks reporting through to the Chair of Audit and Risk Committees.
But as we have seen in the Laker Report into CBA, where the Board drops the ball, what happens then?
I do find the Chief Pilot analogy convincing.
A statutory obligation to pick up the phone direct to the regulators to an assigned senior executive within the bank with these responsibilities, spelled out in the accountability map as part of the BEAR, is a very worthy idea.
But as with all the recommendations in the PC report we will look carefully at them, consult, and consider our response in concert with any further matters coming forward, in particular from the Royal Commission.
And I note this report had already been shared with Royal Commission.
Now of course governments can't solve everything in this space, and nor should it be our sole responsibility.
I have already spoken of the role customers have to play.
But the banks made this mess for themselves and are increasingly demonstrating that they must play their role in cleaning up their own shop.
In the new Banking Code of Practice, approved by ASIC only this week, we have a genuine path forward for banks to earn back the community's trust and act in the interest of the customers.
It is a significant step the banks are taking to alter their behaviour.
And it enhances responsible lending practices, increased transparency of their products and greater protection of their customers.
The changes will bring tangible benefits to customers.
For example, pressure will be taken off customers, with sales of add-on insurance being deferred for at least four days when a customer applies for a credit card or loan, and banks will be forced to give their customers a list of direct debits and recurring payments to make it easier for them to switch banks.
And for the first time, the code will apply to small businesses that have under $3 million total credit exposure.
Under the Code, allowable non-monetary default clauses have been slashed and for those that remain, there are tight restrictions on their use.
So as long as small businesses are doing the right thing and making repayments, they will spared from default.
And importantly, the Code forms part of the contract with the customer.
I welcome the new code and I congratulate the industry for being proactive in addressing genuine concerns from their customers.
It is encouraging that the banks are starting to listen to the public and are looking to lift their game when it comes to how they behave and treat their customers.
I have seen other similar examples of this in recent weeks, including NAB making changes to its approach to rural lending.
Ultimately, as I said before, the banks have got themselves into this mess and they are the ones that have to get themselves out of it.
While they have a long way to go, the new code is a step in the right direction.
Putting more power in the hands of the customer.
Aspiration has no age limit.
That’s what we believe.
Aspiration doesn’t grind to a halt when you hit 65.
It is not the exclusive domain of younger generations, eyes wide open, world at their feet.
To be financially secure; setup for the years to come.
To be fit and healthy.
To build on or broaden your career, to learn new skills, seek out new experiences and opportunities.
To be independent.
To be safe.
To be respected.
These aspirations don’t fade away as you get older.
Likewise, choice and opportunity should also not retire.
We will continue to enliven and encourage people to realise their aspirations at whatever age they may be.
This year’s Budget was once again a plan for a stronger economy.
Our Budget is a plan for a stronger economy because we believe that from a stronger economy all else flows, most importantly the essential services that Australians rely on.
I could come here today and I could give you any number of commitments about services, particularly when it relates to aged care or anything else, but they wouldn’t mean anything at all if the Government didn’t have a plan for a stronger economy.
If you don’t have such a plan you can’t afford to implement any of those policies.
Frankly, I wouldn’t believe any political party or any politician who stood at any platform and made any commitment to you unless they had a plan for a stronger economy to pay for it.
Now, our Budget sets out what that plan is.
I have just returned from two days in Argentina at the G20 and the Australian economy is the envy of all of those economies.
Twenty-seven years of consecutive growth, real GDP growing at 3.
1 per cent, the strongest jobs performance in our economic history – 95,000 young people have got jobs in the last fiscal year.
That is the strongest fiscal year jobs growth for young people since 1989.
We have a strong economy and the plans we are putting in place for an even stronger economy are being realised.
That is the guarantee that underwrites; whether it is on aged care, on welfare, on pensions, on disability services, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme – all of these things.
Unless you have a stronger economy, any commitment in that area, any empathy in that area, any passion that might be proclaimed in that area cannot be relied upon unless you have such a plan to ensure the economy continues to grow and underwrite all of these things that Australians rely on.
Now, as part of this year’s plan for a stronger economy we have addressed the challenges of ageing on our economy but more broadly.
Dealing with this has been a key part of our plan.
It involves ensuring that choice and opportunity, and the ability for all Australians to build their aspirations for a longer and healthier life – engaged, informed and empowered – all of these are realised.
Our More Choices for a Longer Life package is not just good social policy to increase engagement by older Australians, but it is a targeted and proactive step to prepare our economy for an ageing population.
An ageing population means Australians are living longer and healthier lives.
I don’t know about you, but I think that’s a pretty good thing.
When we talk about ageing sometimes, you would think when you hear from public policy makers or bureaucrats or economic commentators that it is some sort of economic curse that people are living longer and healthier.
Cheer up!
It’s good news.
It’s great news and we need to think of it like that.
The ageing of our population does not have to be an economic curse, an inescapable drag on our future economic growth or a mogadon for productivity.
Of course these are all genuine risks if the ageing of our population is not properly managed, and not prepared for.
If you go into it not understanding the opportunities that present, then it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Australia is far from alone in having to navigate its way through the challenges of an ageing population.
This has been a global trend for advanced economies since the share of the population of prime working age peaked almost 20 years ago.
For parts of northern Asia and Europe, the speed of ageing has been swift, with Japan’s median age shifting from 35 in 1985 to 46 in just two decades, and is on track to reach 53 in 2040.
In South Korea, the scale of ageing has been even more pronounced, with the median age jumping from 24.
3 in 1985 to more than 40 in 2015.
Over the same time frame, Germany’s median age has surged from 37.
2 to 45.
9.
It is important to note that while Australia’s population has also aged – with our median age jumping from 31 to 37 in the same three decades – our experience has been markedly different to our peers.
We have not only remained one of the youngest populations among the advanced economies, the growth in our working age population has been consistently high compared to our global peers.
And that is largely due to three critical factors that have helped inoculate us from some of the extreme outcomes that occur from a rapidly ageing population.
Firstly, we have run an migration program that prioritises young, skilled migrants, bringing in skilled labour that our economy needs, combating the shortages that were hampering some industries and improving the demographic profile of the workforce.
This has been a major contributor to the changing dynamics of our working-age population over the past 10 years, which has made our controlled migration program the envy of advanced economies.
As a former Immigration Minister, I notice, no matter where you go in the world today, the world looks on at Australia’s immigration program as being the standard.
The Shaping a Nation report, released jointly by Treasury and the Department of Home Affairs earlier this year, found that Australia’s focus on skilled migration has demonstrated positive effects for economic growth, as migration lifts potential GDP and GDP per capita through increased population, productivity and participation.
The report found migration has helped boost Australia’s participation rate, allowing it to increase 1.
4 percentage points over the period of 2000 to 2016, whereas in the absence of migration it would have fallen 2.
1 percentage points.
The latest jobs data for May showed our participation rate at just below our historical peak at 65.
7 per cent, this compares to 61.
7 per cent in Japan, 62.
9 per cent in the United States and 65.
5 per cent in Canada.
So, more Australians of working age out there and active in the labour market.
The report also noted that Australia’s targeted migration program has slowed the impact of ageing on our economy, allowing the economy and society time to adjust and provision for a society where fewer people are working and delivering income tax revenue, but increasingly drawing on government services.
As noted by the Reserve Bank recently, Australia’s median age and old-age dependency ratios are projected to increase by less than those of other advanced economies, which would lead to Australia having one of the youngest populations and workforces of those advanced economies.
This stands in stark contrast to Japan and many countries in Europe, where population growth and ageing populations are projected to be a drag on potential growth in those economies.
Secondly, we have seen a rise in female labour force participation.
Female labour force participation is at record highs in Australia, having risen consistently from 44.
7 per cent in 1980 to the all time high of 60.
6 per cent recorded in June.
For comparison, it was 58.
7 per cent when the Coalition came to office – since that time we have seen an increase of more than 640,000 women in the workforce.
As the RBA noted in its December quarter bulletin: “rising female workforce participation over the past few decades has largely made up for the demographic effects of ageing.
”
And thirdly, Australians are choosing to work for longer.
I stress, choosing, to work for longer.
In the decade to 2016, the participation rate in advanced economies for those aged 65 years or above has increased by an average of two percentage points.
Australia’s growth rate just eclipses that average, growing at a faster rate than the US, Japan, France and Italy.
In fact, the participation rate for older workers in Australia has doubled since the early 2000s.
There are now over half a million people over 65 years of age working and, I am pleased to say, over 40,000 of them found new jobs over the last year.
Of the record jobs growth we saw in 2017 a large part of that success came from increased participation among older workers with almost one third of the 416,000 jobs created in the year to February 2018 was from Australians over the age of 55.
So about one-third, one in three of those jobs that were created in that year were for Australians over the age of 55.
This growth can be attributed to improved health and wellbeing of older workers, changes to workplace culture that support older workers remaining in the workforce for longer, automation and the shift to less physically demanding jobs, as well as insufficient retirement savings and increased age requirements to receive the pension.
This is growth we want to see maintained.
It’s not about forcing older Australians to keep working.
It’s about giving them the choice if they want to keep working.
It’s about providing pathways for older Australians to either continue using their skills and experience, or change tack altogether and seize new opportunities.
The choice is yours.
Opportunity was exactly what 99-year-old John Johnston seized last month.
Retirement was a coat that never did quite fit John, the co-founder of vacuum cleaner retailer Godfreys.
He would miss the action too much.
So he went out and bought controlling share in the company – A 99-year-old entrepreneur.
There’s a phrase we don’t hear often enough: 99-year-old entrepreneur.
I hope we hear it more often.
One of his first public comments on reacquiring the company was: “I don't think we're doing enough on social media.
”
It doesn’t have to be everyone’s story.
Make your own.
The choice is yours.
The best thing we can do as a government is fight to protect your right to choose, and the freedom that brings, and provide the necessary tools, programs and policies to keep older Australians engaged, informed and empowered.
More Choices for a Longer Life Package based four key elements:
To boost jobs and skills, the Government is providing $17.
4 million to fund the Skills Checkpoint for Older Workers Program.
The Skills Checkpoint will provide individually tailored assessments and referrals on how workers can best use their existing skills in the workforce, or identify opportunities for upskilling.
For workers identified through the check as being of highest need, the Government is providing $19.
3 million to fund the Skills and Training Incentive.
In a tightening labour market, older Australians will have more opportunity to continue their working lives and have more choices open to them.
However, without access to skills and training, many older Australians who want to work will remain outside the workforce.
This would be a loss to Australian businesses as older workers are more likely to work part-time than the general population.
Of those people employed over 65 years of age, 55 per cent are in part-time work.
This compares with the 32 per cent of employed persons nationally who work part-time.
In other words, older workers bring skills to workplaces around Australia that may not have demand for a full-time position.
This flexibility is invaluable.
But we understand, despite the benefits of experience, that some firms are reticent about hiring older workers.
Some of this relates to myths like that workers aged over 65 cannot access workers compensation.
While there are some age-based limitations within workers compensation schemes, this is not universal.
Employers should also know that we are reviewing these limitations because employment frameworks need to facilitate employment, not impede it.
To make older workers more financially attractive to employers, we’ve expanded access to the Restart Wage Subsidy for Australians aged over 50.
This measure provides up to $10,000 to employers to support workers to continue their career – $6500 up to 12 months with a further $3500 if the job lasts more than a year.
This measure aligns with the Collaborative Partnership on Mature Age Employment we’re undertaking with the Age Discrimination Commissioner, Dr Kay Patterson, as well as businesses, peak bodies and other experts to drive cultural change in businesses’ approach to taking on mature age employees.
Our approach accommodates the fact that there are practical issues around employing older Australians which governments need to address, aside from issues of prejudice, misconceptions and stereotypes which limit opportunities for older workers.
We need to work together to start changing this way of thinking; and I commend COTA on their work in this field.
On the other side of the ledger, entering the workforce can create financial issues for the job seeker.
These are addressed by the Finances for a longer life component.
Tax and welfare payments should not be obstacles to re-entering the workforce.
The best form of welfare is a job.
That is why in this year’s Budget we increased the Pension Work Bonus from $250 to $300 per fortnight, and extended the Bonus to self-employed individuals.
This means age pensioners will be able to earn an additional $50 per fortnight (around $1,300 a year) without reducing their pension payments.
Self-employed people will now also be eligible for the Bonus and will be able to earn up to $300 per fortnight ($7,800 a year) without affecting their pension.
The Government is also expanding the Pension Loans Scheme to all Australians of Age Pension age including maximum rate age pensioners and self-funded retirees.
This measure will be accessible from 1 July 2019.
It will give older Australians a further option to boost their income by drawing down on the equity in their own home.
This complements the support we have provided to removing the barriers to downsizing – giving older Australians greater choice in how they can boost their income in retirement.
Under the Pension Loans Scheme, full rate pensioners will be able to increase their income by up to $11,799 (singles) or $17,787 (couples) per year by unlocking the equity in their home.
Participants will have the flexibility to start or stop receiving PLS payments as their personal circumstances change, and generally repay the loan once their home is sold.
The PLS means older Australians can increase their disposable income above the value of their pension by accessing equity in their home without leaving their home.
For some, this initiative won’t suit their circumstances; we understand, one size won’t fit all.
In fact, you’ll notice that our initiatives, especially in aged care, seek to accommodate individual circumstances.
So if you do wish to sell, we’ve removed barriers to downsizing.
This will help older Australians to move from a large home that no longer meet their needs.
People aged 65 and older can now make a non-concessional (post-tax) superannuation contribution of up to $300,000 from the proceeds of selling their home.
This is on top of existing contribution limits.
This means older Australians can reduce the size of their home, and the bigger bills associated with a large home such as increased electricity and heating costs, while increasing their disposable income through superannuation.
Also from 1 July 2019, the Government will provide more time for Australians aged 65 to 74 to get their financial affairs in order by introducing an exemption from the superannuation work test.
This exemption will apply where an individual’s total superannuation balance is below $300,000 and will permit voluntary superannuation contributions in the first year that they do not meet the work test requirements.
Currently, the work test restricts the ability to make voluntary superannuation contributions for those aged 65-74 to individuals who self-report as working a minimum of 40 hours in any 30-day period in the financial year.
The measure will support a higher standard of living for retirees and expand retirement income options to meet changing retirement needs.
We’ve done this as there’s no reason why Australians shouldn’t be able to keep adding to their superannuation income beyond 65.
As we know, Australians are living longer – and living better for longer.
To encourage the development of new innovative income stream products, the Government is clarifying how these products are assessed against the Age Pension means test.
We will also require superannuation fund trustees to develop a retirement plan for members and offer a wider variety of products, and provide more information to help consumers compare products.
Our package also supports choice and a healthy life.
Unfortunately, not all older Australians will be able to work as long as they wish or have the choices available that they thought they would have.
Half of older people had some degree of disability, but three-quarters reported their health as good, very good or excellent.
But, this can change suddenly, and we need to be prepared.
The More Choices for a Longer Life Package will see the Government provide $1.
6 billion to fund 14,000 additional level 3 and 4 home care packages over 4 years.
By 2021-22, over 74,000 more high-level home care packages will be available, an increase of 86 per cent from 2017-18 numbers.
We will continue to support those who access aged care services, including those in regional and remote areas, providing $105.
7 million over 4 years to support the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Flexible Aged Care Program and an additional $40 million in capital grants over 4 years for aged care providers in regional, rural and remote Australia.
To help Australians make informed decisions about their care needs, we are investing $61.
7 million to introduce additional functionality to the My Aged Care website, making it easier for consumers and their families to navigate the aged care system.
In addition:
Through these measures, we hope to keep people active and healthy for longer, but to provide access to the services, not just when they need them but where they need them.
These measures are in addition to the record levels of funding for public hospital services with a new five-year public hospital funding agreement that will deliver more than $30 billion in additional funding between 2020-21 and 2024-25.
And the Medicare Guarantee Fund is continuing to guarantee funding for the Medicare Benefits Schedule and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, ensuring that Australians can be certain that they will continue to have access to the essential health care services they need.
And finally, our package seeks to safeguard quality and rights, ensuring our most vulnerable are not taken for a ride and the dignity of older Australians is protected.
Care for our oldest Australians is a growing challenge – for families who have to make tough decisions, and government, which regulates the industry.
Families are justified in demanding that the institutions which care for their relatives actually do so, which is why the government is working to ensure that the regulatory framework that safeguards aged care quality meets the challenge.
The Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission will be established and regulatory settings will be strengthened and made more transparent.
Scheduled accreditation visits to residential aged care facilities are no more.
These visits have been replaced with unannounced audits.
This will ensure that safety and quality care standards are maintained at all facilities at all times – not just when they know they’re being assessed.
Residential aged care providers will be assisted to transition to the new consumer-focused quality standards through a $50 million Quality Care Fund, helping to ensure that people in residential aged care can be confident of safe, quality aged care.
The Government will also provide $22 million to protect older Australians from abuse, including by funding trials of specialist elder abuse support services – a hidden epidemic in our community.
We’re extending support for initiatives, including developing a National Plan on Elder Abuse with the States and Territories; undertaking national prevalence research to expand the evidence base on elder abuse; and establishing an online Elder Abuse Knowledge Hub.
In a broad sense, the Turnbull Government’s economic plan – which is working – is also delivering for older Australians.
Personal tax reform to smash bracket creep and reward hard work.
More competitive tax rates for our businesses that are driving investment, creating jobs and lifting wages.
Guaranteeing the services older Australians rely on.
All possible, all paid for, all secured by a stronger economy.
This is why we have relentlessly pursued economic growth, because a strong economy benefits all Australians, young and old.
But this is what we won’t do.
We won’t support unfair tax grabs on retirees and pensioners who have worked hard, saved hard and have merely invested in Australian companies to give them an income in retirement.
We will allow them to keep their tax refunds.
For some retirees and pensioners, this is their only income.
That’s why out of their $200 billion plus taxes on the Australian economy, Labor’s Retiree Tax is perhaps the cruelest tax of all.
There was a problem, as I said at this event last year.
The problem where WA had been put in a position, where it was receiving less GST revenue than the Northern Territory and Tasmania, that had become an absurd result for a formula that clearly wasn't working.
No one, regardless of where you live in the country, can you look at that situation and say where WA has got less than 30 cents per capita share less of a distribution – there's no argument you can put that says that is not a broken system that has produced that result.
Now that is something we've always been very aware of and we knew it had to be solved.
The issue was it wasn't just the unfairness of it.
The issue was that there was a profound and deeper system problem that had to be addressed.
It wasn't just about who was getting what, it was actually about why was this system producing these absurd results, and what was the problem from a national economy point of view.
As we've just said, this wasn't about some parochial argument, this was about a genuine national problem that required a government to take seriously, look into carefully, and to devise a way forward for the whole country, not just for Western Australia, but for the whole country.
I particularly want to thank Western Australians, I particularly want to thank my Western Australian colleagues, for their patience as we've set about that task of delivering an outcome that we believe does meet the mark of ensuring we have a, a system reform that protects against the vulnerabilities that have been identified as we work through the issue.
Now, it was no one's fault this system produced these results, no one designed the system to produce these results, so it wasn't some sort of partisan debate about how this happened.
There's certainly been some politics about what has been done and what wasn't done, but the issue of what produced this absurd outcome and this punishing outcome, in particular for WA, that was the more fundamental issue that had to be considered and addressed.
So it was nobody's fault but it did require a solution and as a Commonwealth Government, the Federal Government, the Turnbull Government, we took on the challenge of fixing it, to provide a solution that was sensible, that was fair and as I said last year, a solution that was durable.
No quick fixes, no side deals or special deals.
As we entered into this process of solving this problem, we knew that we would have to create some time and space.
That's why when we came to government, and with the strong advocacy particularly out of the West and Mathias as Finance Minister - and can I also acknowledge I think Hayley Cormann is here today too.
Mathias and all the Western Australian colleagues put it upon us really to ensure that at least the drop that had been experienced under the Labor years about which nothing had been done; remember the GST share had fallen from a dollar down to about 37 [cents] and nothing been done.
There was no top up, there was no acknowledgment of a problem, there was no acceptance of any recommendations, the changes to – none of that had happened.
Over that entire period, it just went down and down and down and down and down and down.
Deaf ears.
But Western Australian colleagues ensured that right from the outset, we stopped the drop, we put it in place the top ups to ensure that it didn't fall any lower than 37 cents and we kept that in place in all of the Budgets we've brought down, and in the most recent Budget we ensured that that 37 stopped, the drop went up to 50.
But we knew that wasn't a long term solution.
We knew that wasn't the way to fix it.
WA's point was not: "we're just not getting enough money".
WA's point was: "we're not a beggar state, we're not a state that wants to go cap in hand every year to the Commonwealth to try and get some compensation.
" That wasn't the solution that was necessary; it wasn't the solution that the Government had any long term interest in at all.
We knew we had to provide some short term relief but ultimately that was only a platform for moving towards a long term solution.
And it had to be a national solution, it had to be a national solution that respected the federation.
It had to be a national solution that could take the rest of the country with us.
It had to respect the federal principles, an important one of which is the fact – and I come from New South Wales, where stronger states support the not-so-strong states.
That principle was established when Barton and Deakin and Forrest and a whole range of others got together and that principle has been an important principle for our federation.
And our federation, I've got to tell you, even with the weaknesses of the way the GST and prior to that other payments had distributed around the state and territories, our system is actually superior to any other system anywhere else in the world.
It has ensured a strong federation for more than a century.
It has gone through different iterations over that period of time and going through another one now.
But the one we're going through now has also been supported and encouraged by the same principles that always holds the federation together.
And that is that we are one country.
We're passionate about our corners of it, I'm as passionate about my Shire, my Sharks as you are about your Eagles or Dockers or Perth or whatever part of Western Australia you come from.
But we're more passionate about being Australians.
That's always been our psyche as a country.
And so that principle of the federation must work and how this is dealt with is very important as a Government.
We couldn't ignore the problem in WA but then deal with it and ignore the importance of the federation and the principles that underpin the federation.
So a national solution was very important in respecting the federation.
And it also had to be a practical solution.
It wasn't about going off to some economist picnic and sitting around the blanket there and swapping anecdotes and stories about horizontal fiscal equalisation and getting our calculators out.
I'm sure Rick would have enjoyed an economists' picnic.
But, you know, in politics, in government more importantly I should say this, in government it's about doing things, changing things, improving things, and to do that, as Mathias has been able to demonstrate in the Senate, it's about getting stuff done.
And so you have to have solutions that can stick, that you can pass, that you can implement, that will be durable.
And so these were the tests that we set ourselves: a practical solution, a national solution, a durable solution, a fair solution.
We accepted responsibility to fix it.
It was not going to be kicked down the road.
By-elections emerging, sure.
Election's coming up, sure.
Political cycle is always present.
The problem had to be fixed.
So I do appreciate the patience of Western Australians, as we've sought to resolve this issue and address the very things that I've just mentioned.
And we have, and I won't go through the plan again today, I'm sure you've read it closely.
And I refer you to the West today, where I've set it out again in an op-ed in the same way that Mathias did a couple of weeks ago.
You know the plan.
We'll continue the top up arrangements to get back up to 70 over the next few years, we will then go through a six-year transition period where we change the formula.
The idea that you could deal with this problem and not change the formula was a non-starter because the formula was ultimately the problem.
There was a built-in vulnerability in the formula, which said that any state for that matter could actually propel itself to the top of the table, with any sort of economic shock, and frankly the smaller the state or territory, the bigger the economic impact on that state, or particular event.
In Western Australia it was a minerals boom, it could be similar things in other states, then that state shoots to the top of the ladder, and basically turns the entire formula on its head.
The problem with the formula was basically this: it was not anchored to a benchmark that had an economic critical mass.
If the same minerals boom, that we were talking about at our table a few minutes ago, putting geology aside for one second, had occurred in New South Wales, then the proportional impact on the New South Wales economy of a mining boom of that size in New South Wales, would of course have been smaller than the impact on Western Australia.
Its impact on the overall fiscal strength of New South Wales would not have had the same impact as it did here in Western Australia.
And so what happened was Western Australia shot to the top and basically turned the formula on its head.
Now going back to that rather pleasant image, I'm sure, of the economist picnic, and everyone's sitting around the blanket.
I mean, technically for them, they would be able to say that the Northern Territory could have something like that occur, and we could have a formula of the distribution of the entire GST based on the Northern Territory as the strongest fiscal jurisdiction.
Now I don't think that is likely, but it's not impossible, and so there was a problem in how it was working.
And so to those who say, in other parts of the country, that this doesn't equate to major policy change, I'd say they've completely missed the point.
The problem with the formula is that it was not anchored on critical mass economies that provided the stability, to how the formula would work and how the revenue was distributed.
And that's what needed to change.
And that's what we have changed by linking it to the stronger of either New South Wales or Victoria.
Now one of the other things that flow from that, and this is very important: the biggest policy bias that exists under the current formula is that it penalises states, particularly other than New South Wales and Victoria, that choose to exploit and develop their resources, as Western Australia has done.
Under what the Government has come forward with, that will no longer be the case.
Western Australia will never be penalised again, under the GST distribution formula for developing the natural wealth of this state.
And I think that's an important change for Western Australia but I tell you what, it's an even more important change to the nation.
I mean, Western Australia has about 10 per cent of the population and 14 per cent of the economy and that's on the other side of the mining boom.
We want our states and territories to do what Western Australia has done.
One of the big problem I had with this formula is that it was penalising Western Australia for doing exactly the thing that we wanted all the other states and territories to do.
That's why it was important to change it.
Now the floors we've put in place at 70 and then 75, that's belts and braces.
It's important belts and braces and I think it provides that assurance.
It provides also the same assurance to New South Wales and Victoria that they also won't go below 75 or in the shorter term below 70.
But the same guarantee applies to Queensland or other states, where they choose to go down the path that Western Australia have, that they won't face those sorts of shocks and those sorts of penalties as a result of the system.
Because the way the system works is this: assessing a state's fiscal capacity basically we look at all of its ability to raise revenue and so on.
The one thing the formula couldn't do was say "what's the value of what you have in the ground?
" In Western Australia, that only gets entered into the formula the minute you put the shovel in the dirt.
Prior to that, it's not taken into account.
The minute you start pulling it out, is the minute it starts becoming part of the formula.
And for other states, who choose to leave it in the ground, there's no penalty, or no disincentive, or incentive to take it [inaudible].
So for those who chose to do it, particular states like Western Australia, well, you've lived through the experience.
And so that's why the change that we've made actually addresses the biggest policy bias that was existing in the formula.
And then putting in the floors provides those safeguards and guarantees.
And then by making the pie bigger, we ensure that any impacts on any other state and territory, because of these changes, permanently, are taken into account, and overwhelmed by the larger pie's distributional effects [inaudible].
So what we've put forward is durable, it's sensible, it's practical, it's national, and it's fair.
It's fair to all states and territories.
And it finally ensures that WA gets the fair share that it was only ever asking for.
Now, we have done that for a very important reason.
I could bore you this morning about our opponents, but I'm not going to do that.
You all know that they didn't act when they could have.
You all know they said when the PC report came out "we will not change the formula".
You all know that they were against floors, for floors, against floors, for floors.
You know all that.
But I'll tell you why you can trust us on this – because we believe it.
Simple.
Our Government is built on many principles and things that we believe.
We believe that the best form of welfare is a job.
We believe that government should live within their means.
We believe in a fair go.
But there's an important addition to that for us.
We believe in a fair go for those who will have a go.
It's not about giving everybody the same.
It's about giving everybody in this country the same opportunity wherever you live to ensure that the state government that's there has the fiscal capacity to support hospitals and schools and all the things that state government's deliver.
That's what we do through the system.
But it's not there for passengers.
It's not there for those who want someone else to carry their water for them when they are capable of carrying it themselves.
One of the reasons I'm so passionate about supporting the NDIS, I know it's got its challenges, but one of the things that's important about the NDIS, as a former Social Services Minister, is this: it's seeking to back people who may not have had the opportunities that others have had in terms of how life circumstances have dealt them.
But it gives them the ability and the capacity to have a go.
That's all Western Australia was seeking to do, was have a go.
With what was in the ground, what was around about them, their people, and their ingenuity.
And we believe in states that want to have a go and people who live in states that want to have a go all across the country.
When we come across something that we think penalises that, then we feel compelled to act because it goes so fundamentally against what we believe in.
Now, if you believe in a fair go for those who have a go, then we're on your side.
And we've demonstrated that by the actions that we've taken when it comes to this this solution for the GST.
But it's not the only place.
When it comes to ensuring that you get to keep more of what you earn, through taxes being lower around the country.
Whether it's personal income taxes, where we have legislated those, or whether it is for business taxes and making sure they're competitive, already legislated for businesses up to $50 million in turnover.
And we continue to work to ensure that that broad scale economy tax relief goes right across.
It's simple: we believe that you should keep more of what you earn.
We think you'll do better with it then the government will do with it.
That's why we are doing it.
That's why we are fixing the GST.
That's why we are lowering taxes.
That's why we are investing in infrastructure right across the country to support the investment that the country needs to continue to grow.
We believe that a stronger economy is what guarantees essential services that Australians rely on like hospitals and schools.
We believe a stronger economy is what keeps Australians safe because you can afford to invest in the security establishment and agencies and defence forces and boarder forces that do all of those things.
If you don't have a plan for a stronger economy then you don't have a plan for any of those other things.
Because without it it's all just talk.
So when I talk about the changes we've made to the GST, which I welcome the support for here in Western Australia, what I'm really talking about is the expression of a core belief and a core value of the Turnbull Government, which says we want to see WA strong again.
We don't want to see it held back.
We don't want to see it penalised for going out and securing and maximising and exploiting the opportunities it has before it, and we want that to be the truth for every single state and territory in the country.
We want state governments to back that in as well and you can make your own judgments on that, and hold state governments here or elsewhere for those from other states to account in achieving that.
But we can't have things that get in the way of helping them to achieve that.
Let me just finish on this and then we'll go to some questions.
I've talked about the need for a stronger economy and I want to bring that back to the GST itself.
You know, for all that talk about GST distributions, the biggest impact on how much money comes back to the states against falls back to how strong the economy is.
You know, if we had consumption growing at 1 per cent less in one year, just one year, that would cost the GST pool over a decade $7 billion.
This package as you know is about that entire amount.
Now just imagine if that didn't just happen over one year, it happened over more than one year, then you're in to the tens of billions of dollars.
For all the talk about how it's distributed, let's not lose sight of the more important thing, and that is how big is the pie.
You don't get a bigger pie if you lob on $200 billion in higher taxes over the next ten years.
You don't get a bigger pie unless you engage in the things that sees industry invest and we've seen occur in this country - non-mining investment up ten per cent, five times the long run average; eight consecutive quarters, the longest run in 20 years.
That's a product of policies, an ambitious country that is choosing to invest.
Consumer confidence, its highest level in almost five years.
Business conditions you know, particularly if you go to the eastern states, and we're seeing that turn here, and I'm pleased to see the report coming from WACCI today in terms of rising business confidence here in Western Australia.
Without a stronger economy, none of this can occur.
And that's why, at the end of the day, our plan for a stronger economy, our commitment to a stronger economy, is the reason you can take our promises to the bank.
Whether it's the promise to fix the GST, the promise to reduce taxes, whether it's the promise to keep focusing on trade outcomes that build our country and provide opportunities for all Australians, it's our commitment to the stronger economy that makes that difference at the end of the day.
So that's why we do what we do.
You may like what we've done on the GST, but I would hope that why we did it is an even more compelling argument.
he essential services that Australians rely on.
The quality of our schools and hospitals.
Medicare, the PBS and our disability services.
Infrastructure that is critical to bust congestion, boost the liveability of our cities and better connect our regions.
All reliant upon, all paid for, all guaranteed by a stronger economy.
This principle was central to the Budget I delivered in May; an acknowledgement of the undeniable link between the strength of our economy and the ability to deliver high quality and reliable services.
And it is the theme of this year’s event, Building Australia’s economic and social resilience.
Without putting in place the right economic fundamentals, the task of building social resilience means you’re playing uphill and into the wind.
More than half the Commonwealth Budget is dedicated to building social resilience: record funding for our schools, record funding for our hospitals and health services, a social welfare safety net to protect vulnerable Australians from being left behind.
If you take economic growth for granted, if you seek to undermine economic growth through reckless policy, or tax it within an inch of its life, you undermine your capacity to deliver the social safety net and supports that social resilience depends upon.
Without a strong economy you can’t afford employment services like the Jobactive program which assists workers to transition.
You can’t afford to add lifesaving drugs to the PBS; drugs like Spinraza and breakthrough medicines to treat breast cancer like we did in this year’s budget.
You can’t afford to increase the amount of in-home care placements, to give older Australians flexibility and choice in their retirement.
A stronger economy pays for all this and more.
And a stronger economy is exactly what we are beginning to see.
After a prolonged exit from the mining investment boom that dragged on the economy for five years, Australia has climbed back to the top of the advanced economy global leaderboard.
Economic growth is now running at 3.
1 per cent through the year, a rate that puts us ahead of the major advanced economies of the world, and above the average growth rate in the OECD and faster than every G7 economy.
We have worked through a difficult five-year period where our economy has adapted to life without the unprecedented stimulus of the mining investment boom.
Around $80 billion of mining investment was stripped from our economy in the years following the peak of the boom in 2012, and we continued to grow.
Now that’s resilience.
Our economy and finances are more resilient than they have been at any time since the GFC.
Our economy is now more broad-based in its growth.
In the latest National Accounts, all major components of the economy contributed to growth in the quarter.
Non-mining business investment continued its recent strength, growing by 10 per cent in the last 12 months, with eight consecutive quarters of growth.
That’s the longest continuous growth since before the start of the mining investment boom.
The budget is now forecast to return to balance in 2019-20, a year ahead of what we had previously anticipated.
We have turned the corner on debt, and from this year are beginning to pay down net debt.
More than $30 billion paid down in the budget forwards and $232 billion in the next decade.
An improved fiscal position puts us in a much better place to be able to respond when a future shock hits, further improving the resilience of the economy.
We have addressed the build-up of risk in the housing market through carefully calibrated macro-prudential policies and other initiatives, taking the heat out and ensuring house price movements are sustainable.
Our businesses have been liberated to grow their operations, invest in their future and hire more Australians, energised by our legislated tax cuts for small and medium businesses with a turnover under $50 million, our instant asset write-off, the cutting of red tape for around 2.
7 million small businesses.
The doors to the world have been opened for our exporters, with new trade deals, including the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP-11).
And of course the resilience we are seeing in our jobs market, with record jobs growth of 412,000 in the last year, three quarters of these positions full-time, providing a significant boost to the economy, tightening the labour market and putting upward pressure on wage growth.
Over 1 million jobs have been created under the Coalition Government.
Our plan for a stronger economy is working.
Which is why we need to stick to the plan.
That plan not only involves encouraging and fostering growth through the suite of positive economic policies that we have and continue to implement.
But it means removing the impediments to growth; the inhibitors that hold our economy back from realising its potential.
One of the greatest of these impediments to growth is uncompetitive taxes - our taxes are too high and tax revenues are increasing once again as a share of our economy.
There must be a limit, a control, on just how much tax you are prepared to impose on the economy.
That is why we have applied the tax speed limit, expressed as a 23.
9 per cent share of GDP.
This protects the economy and the budget from fiscal recklessness.
If you are not prepared to control your taxes, you are not prepared to control your spending.
That is why Labor have abandoned the notion of a tax speed limit.
Our tax system must reward effort.
It must support working Australians who are trying to get ahead.
It must not penalise those who do better, get a pay rise or work more hours, by asking them to pay ever-increasing rates of tax.
Our tax system must encourage our businesses to grow, invest, hire more Australians and pay them more.
It must support them to compete on fairer terms with their global competitors.
It must not leave them uncompetitive in a global marketplace that embraced lower company tax rates long ago.
We are making progress but are only halfway there.
For the sake of jobs and the services that depend on a stronger economy, we need to finish the job.
Last week’s successful passing of our Personal Income Tax plan is a significant win for all working Australians.
We have ensured that all Australians paying tax will be better off.
They will enter a decade where they will be paying less tax, and they will be rewarded for their hard work both now and into the future.
All-inclusive and responsible.
Starting with real tax relief for low to middle income earners.
Dealing with bracket creep.
Making the system simpler.
That’s a plan, saving average wage earners thousands of dollars in the coming years.
And by completely abolishing the 37 cent tax bracket, 94 per cent of Australians will pay a top marginal tax rate of no greater than 32.
5 cents in the dollar.
Every extra dollar they earn, every extra hour they get, every extra shift they do, they won’t have to pay the Government more by stepping into a higher tax bracket.
All made possible by a stronger economy, and keeping our economy strong.
Labor will cut this tax relief in half.
If you are earning just over $75,000 today, you will face a higher marginal tax rate under Labor if they are elected.
In pledging to repeal stages two and three of our legislated tax cuts, Labor are telling nine million Australians, and their families, that they are taking their tax relief, worth $70 billion, away.
This is in addition to the more than $200 billion in new and higher taxes they are preparing to dump on the economy.
Our focus now shifts once again to legislating the full implementation of our Enterprise Tax Plan - extending the legislated tax cuts for businesses up to $50 million turnover, to all businesses, benefitting the nine out of ten Australian workers who work in the private sector.
You want to boost economic growth?
Let businesses invest more of their earnings back into their business: buying new machinery, hiring more Australians, taking on new markets and new opportunities, and paying their workers more.
The evidence is clear, and the benefits broad.
Treasury’s economy-wide modelling suggests taking our company tax rate from 30 per cent to 25 percent would generate a sustained, permanent increase in the level of GDP of just over one per cent.
Last October, the IMF published modelling that estimated if the US, Germany and France cut corporate taxes and increased consumption taxes to pay for it, real GDP in each economy would increase by almost four per cent after 10 years.
Businesses would invest more, and profits would be shifted into economies that were reducing their tax rates, the IMF claimed.
While profound on the upside, the downside painted by the IMF was a stark warning to countries that failed to make their business tax rate more competitive.
They would face a reduction in real GDP by about one per cent.
Just by inaction alone.
Australia’s uncompetitive high company tax rate is increasingly holding us back from realising stronger economic growth and jobs, and putting considerable risk on the foreign capital injections that our businesses and the wider economy need.
As the OECD have said: “corporate income taxes are the most harmful for growth as they discourage the activities of firms that are most important for growth: investment in capital and productivity improvements”.
Around 3 million Australian businesses are paying more competitive tax rates courtesy of our legislated tax cuts; businesses that employ a staggering 7 million Australians.
What we are seeking to do is extend those tax cuts to a further 6,000 businesses - those companies that have a turnover in excess of $50 million.
While that may not sound like a significant number of businesses, the headcount is considerable.
Around four million employees working in businesses that are still stuck paying a 30 per cent tax rate.
These are workers behind the till at the supermarket.
Flight attendants guiding you to your seat.
The truck driver you pass on the freeway.
Labourers working on the infrastructure projects that are making your city more liveable.
Why should their prospects of a pay rise or advancement be impacted simply because the government demands more of its profits?
How are they different to the 7.
2 million Australians already working in businesses that pay more competitive tax rates?
Back in May, I toured a business in Rockhampton that proved the unworkability of having a split in our company tax rates, and the effect it has on wages.
Garry and Julie Coxon run a family mechanical service business in the Central Queensland city and from next week will receive their first tax cut as part our legislated Enterprise Tax Plan.
But the question is, how long will the Coxons get to keep it?
Because within just 12 months, if they keep going as well as they have been, their turnover will tick over $50 million and they will go back to paying 30 per cent tax on all their profits.
Simply by doing better in their business, they will be punished with a higher tax rate.
Remember, this is not their profit, this is their turnover from what is very large and very expensive machinery.
The Coxons are not bankers in suits.
They are not Facebook or Amazon executives.
They run a successful radiator business in a blue shed on the outskirts of Rockie, employ 35 workers ripping the front off mining trucks and replacing the radiators with a modular variety.
But that tax relief they are about to receive, which they say will go towards more jobs and higher wages for their workers, will soon be gone.
Even worse, Labor have already committed to reversing our legislated tax cuts to business, ripping $60 billion away from small and medium businesses like Coxon’s Radiator Service.
No longer an incentive to create more jobs.
No longer an incentive to lift wages.
In addition to their own modelling on our Enterprise Tax Plan, Treasury also engaged two independent consultants - KPMG and Independent Economics - to provide analysis on the effects of tax reform.
Both showed significant increases in investment (1.
6 to 2.
7 per cent) and wage growth (0.
4 to 1.
4 per cent).
It is also a case made by Professor of Economics at UNSW Business School, Richard Holden, who cites an empirical study by three German economists published in the flagship American Economic Review that reviewed 18,000 tax changes across 10,000 jurisdictions between 1993 and 2012.
It showed company tax cuts provided a benefit to businesses and workers in relatively equal measure.
Professor Holden noted that “cutting the Australian company tax rate from 30 per cent to 25 per cent is not just good for business and workers.
It also helps redress economic inequality.
“The benefits to workers,’’ Professor Holden said, “tend to flow disproportionately to women, young people and the less skilled.’
’
Of course, it isn’t just the larger companies and their workers that stand to benefit from more competitive tax rates.
It is the army of small businesses that occupy an important place in the supply chain.
It’s the classic analogy: a rising tide lifts all boats.
The suppliers, contractors and producers - all stand to gain when big business does well and is incentivised to grow and expand.
For a company like Qantas, we are talking about a supply chain of 13,000 businesses.
Boutique wineries, bakers, designers, dairies, freight companies - a microcosm of the economy, all serving the interests of one company.
When Qantas does well, they do well.
According to the Business Council of Australia, in 2015-16, trade between big businesses and small businesses was a colossal $555 billion.
Aside from the benefits to the economy and Australian workers, there are the clear risks involved in keeping our businesses anchored to what is now one of the highest tax rates in the OECD.
Other nations will simply cut our lunch.
When Australia cut its rate to 30 per cent in 2001, there were 19 OECD countries with a higher company tax rate.
Now there are only 2.
And when France’s legislated company tax cut takes effect, Australia’s rate will be the second highest amongst advanced economies - just ahead of Portugal.
Now Portugal have Ronaldo and are going great guns at the World Cup but when you look at the OECD economic leaderboard, Portugal is sitting near the bottom.
This will leave Australian business at a significant disadvantage compared to our competitors who are benefiting from a 19 per cent rate in the UK, a 17 per cent rate in Singapore and on average a combined federal and state rate of around 25 per cent in the US.
Our global peers have long grasped the notion of competitive corporate tax rates.
They have cut their rates and they have reaped the spoils, having recognising that to keep pace in an increasingly global marketplace, their businesses needed to have a competitive edge.
And in doing so, they tipped their hat to an unassailable economic reality: competitive taxes mean more jobs.
Competitive taxes mean higher wages.
Competitive taxes mean more investment.
By keeping to the status quo, we risk our businesses being uncompetitive on the global stage.
We risk jobs heading offshore to jurisdictions that have embraced more competitive taxes.
And we risk investment bypassing Australia, as foreign companies and capital seek a better return elsewhere.
Bill Shorten talks a lot about the big end of town.
His refusal to support more competitive taxes for businesses in Australia means he is for the big end of town in New York, in San Francisco, in London, in Singapore, in Tokyo, in Shanghai.
Because their companies benefit from paying lower rates of tax and they are competing with companies in Australia who Bill Shorten wants to ensure pay higher rates of tax.
Perhaps the most galling part of Labor’s stubborn anti-business, anti-economy stance, is that they used to believe in this stuff.
They used to support the notion that Australian businesses paying more competitive tax rates was good for the economy, and good for workers.
Shadow Finance Minister Jim Chalmers said in February 2016: “Australia would go well out of a lower company rate than it is right now.
’’
Shadow Treasurer Chris Bowen wrote a book about it, advocating in 2013 that cutting company taxes was a “Labor thing”.
He said “reducing company tax..
.
promotes investment, creates jobs and drives growth.
’’
Bill Shorten, when Minister for Financial Services in March 2012, went as far as to belittle any listener who dared think business tax cuts were bad for the economy: “Any student of Australian business and economic history since the mid-80s knows that part of Australia’s success was derived through the reduction in the company tax rate,’’ he said.
How dare they.
He went on: “We need to be able to make life easier for Australian businesses.
”
“Cutting the company income tax rate increases domestic productivity and domestic investment.
More capital means higher productivity and economic growth and leads to more jobs and higher wages.
That was Bill Shorten, circa August 2011.
Even Wayne Swan used to believe in it.
Whilst standing beside then PM Kevin Rudd at a press conference in May 2010, the now Labor party President said “reducing company tax will create new jobs and grow the economy right around the country to the ultimate benefit of all Australians.
Even former PM Julia Gillard, in March 2012 said “If you are against cutting company tax, you are against economic growth.
”
They could barely agree on anything back then, but they all agreed that lower, more competitive tax rates were good for business, jobs, investment and the economy.
How can they be trusted with our economy, when they cannot hold to such a basic economic principle as this.
Finally, while we believe business tax in this country should be lower and more competitive across the board, it should also be paid.
The Turnbull Government’s pursuit of more competitive tax rates has run in tandem with our pursuit of multinationals who were not paying their fair share of tax.
Our Multinational Anti-Avoidance Law (MAAL) is clawing back into the tax net $7 billion a year in sales from foreign companies operating in Australia.
This is in addition to the $5 billion raised through our various tax integrity measures since 2016.
In the Budget in May, we also strengthened the rules that limit interest deductibility to stop companies shifting profits out of Australia, and broadened the scope of the MAAL and the Diverted Profits Tax.
Companies avoiding tax by shifting it overseas will pay a 40 per cent penalty rate on those profits.
Not only did Labor vote against our Multinational Anti-Avoidance Law, but through its proposed changes to rent-to-build, it is advocating multinational companies receive a 50 per cent tax discount to build apartments in Australia.
Once again, Labor like to rail against the big end of town in Australia.
But their record shows they are the biggest champions for the big end of town in New York, San Francisco and London.
New changes to the tax treatment of stapled structures announced in the Budget will close down a tax loophole opened up by the Rudd Government back in 2008 and tighten other concessions that gave foreign investors a leg up over Australian investors.
In some cases, sovereign investors achieved tax rates of close to zero per cent on active business income.
And we are improving the integrity of the GST by making sure foreign businesses pay GST for online sales to Australians from July 1, much to the huff of the world’s richest man, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos.
This will help boost the GST funding pool that is divided between the States and Territories, which has increased by $3.
2 billion in the last year.
The next big challenge is how we ensure large multinational digital, tech and new economy companies pay their fair share of tax.
As I announced in the Budget, in coming weeks I will be releasing a discussion paper on the taxation of digital companies.
I will also be discussing these important matters with my G20 colleagues next month, where we are working on a multilateral approach.
While there is a clear financial gain from these tax integrity measures, they are designed primarily for one reason.
They are all geared at levelling the playing field.
So Australian business can compete with multinationals on fair terms.
As a Government we are achieving the goals of economic and social resilience by ensuring that we deliver on our plan for a stronger economy that I announced in this year’s Budget:
That’s our plan.
The plan is working.
It is enabling Australians more and more to plan for their future with confidence in an uncertain world.
And it’s important that we stick to this plan, because Australia and Australians cannot afford the alternative.
At last year’s Federal Council, I said that as a party our job was not to persuade Australians to be on our side, but to convince and demonstrate to them that we were on theirs.
This remains our task; engaging and demonstrating every day and in every way, that we are working for them and focussed on what matters most to them.
That is what this year’s Budget was about, and it’s what we have been delivering as a Government.
Our plan for a stronger economy demonstrates to Australians we are on their side.
Lower taxes.
Creating more jobs.
Guaranteeing the essential services that Australians rely on.
Keeping Australians safe and ensuring the Government lives within its means.
That’s our plan.
We are on the side of working Australians who should get to keep more of what they have earned by delivering lower taxes.
It’s your money.
You earned it.
You deserve to keep more of it.
Our Personal Tax Plan, announced in this year’s Budget, is a genuine long-term plan for lower, fairer and simpler personal taxes.
It’s a responsible, well considered, all-inclusive plan to fix some of the real flaws in our tax system that are killing aspiration and preventing Australians from being rewarded for their effort.
Importantly it’s a plan for all Australians who work and pay tax, starting with low to middle income earners who will receive immediate support, right through to the removal of an entire tax bracket, ensuring that by the end of our plan, 94 per cent of Australians will pay a marginal tax rate of no greater than 32.
5 cents in the dollar.
Bracket creep: dead.
Labor is not on their side.
Labor is for higher taxes.
We see the economy as something to grow.
Labor sees the economy as something to tax.
The reason, as history shows, Labor just simply cannot control their spending.
As a result, everything that moves, has to be taxed.
Everything that is taxed, needs to be taxed more.
It’s a tired, old and failed Labor philosophy that has been turbo-charged under this Leader of the Opposition.
The proof is in the more than $200 billion in extra taxes Labor boast they will impose on the Australian economy, a wrecking ball to growth and jobs; completely undermining the strength that is continuing to build in our economy.
What taxes?
A $20 billion tax on mum and dad investors - nurses, teachers, police – through Labor’s plan to abolish negative gearing for established homes.
A $13 billion extra tax on capital gains tax for all assets, not just housing, upping the rate by 50 per cent, by halving the CGT discount.
A $22 billion tax on wages, courtesy of Labor’s plan to reimpose the deficit levy – permanently – and if they get their way this fortnight another $70 billion in higher income taxes, as they have already sought to cut our personal tax plan in half.
A $22 billion tax on family businesses, with Labor planning to impose a 30 per cent tax rate on distributions from discretionary trusts.
A $25 billion tax on the saving you are putting into your superannuation; lowering the annual non-concessional cap to $75,000; lowering the high income super contribution threshold; reversing the introduction of catch-up concessional contributions.
$65 billion in higher taxes on Australian businesses – although they are yet to cost this plan – courtesy of Labor’s plan to reverse the Turnbull Government’s Enterprise Tax Plan; including the reckless jacking up of taxes on those businesses under $50 million in turnover that have already received their legislated tax cuts.
But perhaps the cruellest tax of all: Labor’s Retiree Tax, stripping away the tax refunds of Australians who simply bought shares in Australian companies to provide for themselves in retirement; a plan they say will raise $56 billion – but over which there are big question marks – that will whack older Australians in particular starting at what they say is more than $5 billion every year.
This is Bill Shorten’s “great” Labor vision for Australia.
Tax, Tax, and more Tax.
We’re on the side of the more than a million Australians who have got a job under the Coalition Government since we were first elected, the families that those jobs support and the businesses that created them and will continue to sustain them.
We are on the side of the 415,000 Australians who went out and got a job just last year – more than a thousand a day – an all time Australian record.
On the even more recent data, in the past year 80,200 young Australians got a job – the strongest annual growth since 2008.
We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in more than five years.
We are on the side of Australia’s army of small and medium sized businesses that employ more than one in two working Australians.
They have done it tough over the past decade, dipping into their own pockets to keep staff on and give them pay rises.
But now they are starting to see the fruits of their labour, enjoying some of the best trading conditions in years, aided by:
Non-mining business investment grew by 10 per cent in the last 12 months, with eight consecutive quarters of growth.
That’s the longest continuous growth since before the start of the mining investment boom.
We’re also on the side of Australians who want to see congestion busting, city shaping, investment loosening, economic boosting infrastructure being built in our cities, towns and regions across Australia, spreading the benefits of growth, from the Tulla Rail and the Aerotropolis centred on Western Sydney Airport, to the Frankston Baxter line, the Shoalhaven and Bridgewater Bridges and the boosting of the Bruce Highway and M1.
We are on the side of families who rely on our hospitals, our schools, child care support, aged care, disability care and affordable medicines.
It is the Turnbull Government that has delivered record funding for hospitals, highlighted in the recent signing with the states of a five-year hospital deal that will provide $30 billion.
It’s the Turnbull Government that has delivered record needs based funding for our schools.
It’s the Turnbull Government that is delivering more affordable child care for those families and those communities that need it most.
It’s the Turnbull Government who in this Budget is on the side of older Australians giving them more choices for a longer and healthier life – more home care places, extending the pension loans scheme and pension work bonus, and initiating programs that will give older Australians additional skills.
We are on the side of Australians who need the assurances that Medicare and the PBS will not only be guaranteed into the future, but strengthened.
In the Budget I announced an extra $1.
4 billion for listings on the PBS, including medicines to treat spinal muscular atrophy and breast cancer.
Labor is not on their side.
Because their commitments are based on a lie.
You can’t guarantee essential services that Australians rely on, if you cannot deliver a stronger economy.
Labor has no plan for a stronger economy.
Labor only has a plan to tax everyone more.
We are on the side of Australians who want their Government to keep them safe.
Stopping the boats and keeping them stopped.
Protecting Australians from the threat of terrorism.
Hunting down criminals.
Giving our defence forces what they need to do their job to protect our values and our freedom.
Protecting Australia from those who seek to do us harm and exert unwelcome influence on our soil.
This is what the Turnbull Government is doing and can be trusted to keep doing it.
Australians know Labor cannot be relied upon when it comes to these issues.
Sure, they may follow our lead from time to time, and try and say the right thing.
But Australians know that Labor cannot be trusted to take the lead on national security, to stop the boats and keep them stopped, give our defence forces and national security agencies what the need to do the job – because they didn’t when they had the chance – and we have.
And we are on the side of Australians who live within their means and expect Governments to do the same.
The Budget is now forecast to return to balance in 2019-20 a year ahead of what we had previously anticipated – six years from when our budget repair task began – the same time it took John Key and Bill English in New Zealand.
Real growth in spending continues to be below two per cent, the lowest rate of any government in more than 50 years.
We have finally turned the corner on debt.
We have wrestled Labor’s debt monster to the ground.
In this year’s Budget we can now start paying down the debt.
It falls by $30 billion over the next four years from its peak and more than $230 billion over the next ten years.
Our record of strong economic management has continued to secure Australia’s AAA credit rating with all three major ratings agencies, one of just ten countries to have achieved this.
Moody’s, the latest to confirm our AAA rating just this past week.
Also just this past week Reserve Bank Governor Phil Lowe said that the 3.
1 per cent growth we are seeing in our economy, stronger than the top seven advanced economies in the world today, was “confirmation that the Australian economy is moving in the right direction,’’ adding that the figures were “consistent with the bank’s central scenario for the Australian economy to grow more strongly this year and next than it has over recent years’’.
The Turnbull Government’s plan for a stronger economy is working.
It is delivering jobs and growth as promised.
We need to stick to the plan.
Because at the end of the day, everything rises and falls on a stronger economy.
The security of your job, your business, your wage.
The essential services you rely on.
Bringing the Budget back into balance.
All dependent upon a strong economy.
When I spoke last year I said Australians had turned down the sound on Canberra.
In less than a year Australians will reluctantly turn the sound back up again, as they know they will have a serious choice to make.
In less than a year opinions about politics will turn into real decision – that’s what elections do.
Opinions are interesting but choices have consequences.
It’s the old bacon and egg principle.
The chicken is interested in the process, it makes a lot of noise, but the pig is committed.
Australians know that the decision about who runs our country is not a reality television show.
They know there are real consequences.
It will be a decision about who they believe they can trust with our economy and our national security, because everything else flows from that.
When it comes to the economy, of all the risks our economy faces today, there are none immediately greater than Labor and Bill Shorten.
Why?
Because unlike us, he believes the Australian economy can be taken for granted and everything that flows from it.
He believes our economic growth is something that just happens.
That he will get the keys to The Lodge and expect the economy to just keep powering on regardless of what he does.
Australians know where that ends, but we must remind them.
Australians have a clear choice at the next election: A government for lower taxes, a stronger economy and a safer Australia, under Malcolm Turnbull.
Or a weaker economy, with higher taxes, Australians paying more under an uncertain and unbelievable Bill Shorten - unbelievaBill.
The sound is being turned up again.
We are and will continue to demonstrate that we are the voice that can be trusted.
A voice that says: We are on your side with a track record and plan for the future that proves it.
Mark and Nicole and Steve, he calls himself lucky Steve, you saw him in the video there, Jo and Cruz and Nick, they’re like millions of Australians today.
As they’ve got up this morning, and they might’ve been caring for an aged parent, and exchanged that loving morning smile, probably the best part of their day.
They may be sitting on a tram this morning, on a train.
They may be on site already.
They can be out on a rural road somewhere.
Wherever they are in Australia today, whatever they’re doing in Australia today this morning.
One thing’s for certain, and that is the economy they live in over the next ten years, is going to determine a lot for them.
It’s going to determine their choices, it’s going to determine the job market their kids are walking in to, that they themselves are in.
It’s going to determine how they can save, how they can plan for their future.
The economy is not a theory.
It’s real.
It’s what we live in.
And, other than your health arguably, there are few things that are going to determine people’s choices in this country more than that.
The economy we live in.
That’s why in this Budget, we have delivered a plan for a stronger economy.
Because we want the economy that Australians live in over the next ten years to be stronger.
We want them to have more choices.
We want them to have more opportunities.
We want them to be able to look forward to the next day, with less anxiety.
If you don’t have a strong economy, then everything else suffers.
There’s no money tree.
There is the strong economy that we all rely on wherever we are, whatever circumstance we’re in.
That’s what pays for the show.
And in this Budget, you’ll see, that over the next four years the Australian economy will become a $2 trillion economy – a $2 trillion economy.
And Australians will be asking themselves, who do they trust to manage a $2 trillion economy?
Who do they trust with the economy that they are going to live in, that they’re going to seek and thrive in?
The small business owner who’s risked it all.
What sort economy are they relying on to make sure that bet comes good on the business that they’ve made and the sacrifices they’ve taken and the risks they’ve taken.
Who are you going to trust for that stronger economy?
A $2 trillion economy.
A Government that over five years, as I’ll take you through in the slides this morning, that’s turned that ship around.
Whether it’s on debt, or on deficit, or on jobs, on all the metrics, heading in the right direction with a clear plan for a strong economy, that can give Australians hope and confidence and a clear plan for their future?
Or unbelieva-Bill?
Bill Shorten.
Unbelieva-Bill.
That’s who he is.
Rolled gold promises he made to workers when he represented them.
Rolled gold promises he made to the leaders when he served them.
Rolled gold promises he made about the people who’ve been sitting in his own Parliament.
Unbelieva-Bill.
Every time you hear Bill Shorten talking it’s unbelieva-Bill.
On every occasion.
And you know what, Australians know it.
They know this bloke is shifty.
And they know he’s unbelieva-Bill.
And so it really is a question of trust.
An absolute question of trust.
Just as it was when John Howard and Peter Costello were in charge of what was not then a $2 trillion economy.
But I tell you what, what they did put us on the path to be a $2 trillion economy.
And we want to be continuing to be that Government, which continues Australia on the path to a stronger economy.
Not a weaker one.
A stronger economy is not built on bitterness and envy and the politics of bitterness and envy, but it’s built on the economics of opportunity, of aspiration, and that’s what this Budget is about.
Mark, Nicole, Steve, Jo and Cruz, Nick.
Nick’s actually from the Shire in my electorate in Sydney, started a business called Modular Walls fifteen years ago.
It’s now a $20 million business.
He’s benefitted from the instant asset write off in recent years to get himself up over $10 million up to $20 million.
He’s benefitted from the small business tax cuts.
He’s benefitted from all of these things.
And his business is growing, employing fifty people now, in my own community.
Jo and Cruz, Jo, is very happy because in this Budget, because of a stronger economy, we’ve delivered a drug onto the PBS called Spinraza, which will cost the family $370,000 a year, all beyond her capabilities, she knows that.
As a result of a stronger economy, all Australians can now be proud that young Cruz is getting that drug for $40 bucks a script for a year.
That’s a wonderful thing to be able to do.
That’s what you can do when you have a stronger economy.
You can’t do it if you can’t deliver a stronger economy or manage it.
And good old Steve, Lucky Steve as he calls himself, Lucky Steve lost his business during the GFC.
And then he went back to school and trained a security guard, and now he’s got both knees all bunged up from two car accidents which he insists were not his fault if you ask him.
And he’s out there doing that now, and he knows he’s going to have to work longer because he lost all of his super when his business went bust.
So what he is now doing is getting himself back on his feet, literally, and the changes we’re making on super, the changes we’re making to support older Australians in this Budget are all helping him.
But what I wanted to focus on this morning as we go through the slides is how we’re turning that ship around and how a stronger economy – and how we continue to do that for the next four years, ten years – is going to keep us on that track.
Over the last five years of our Government, we have been turning the fiscal situation around in this country.
And we have had a pace of, to date, fiscal consolidation of 2 per cent and that will go to 3.
8 per cent over the balance of the forward estimates period, when we will reach that $2 trillion economy mark.
And we will have a modest balance in 2019-20, but we’re not here crowing about it, that’s what the numbers show.
But we’re always very conservative when it comes to these things.
We’re always very measured, we’re always very responsible, because it’s the money of the taxpayers of Australia that we’re managing so carefully, but that balance does build up to $11 billion in 2020-21, and onto $16.
6 billion in 2021-22.
But if you’re going into the medium-term, you can see there that those surpluses build to 1 per cent of the economy and more.
But it does so with one very important condition attached to it, in a positive way.
And it does so while ensuring over that period of time that we keep taxes under control, that we keep a speed limit on taxes, and that we ensure that you don’t allow your taxes to consume your economy and suffocate growth.
Higher taxes mean a weaker economy.
Higher taxes all Australians pay for them, regardless of whether they’re levied on you or not, because of the crushing burden of taxes on the economy, that’s what suffocates jobs, suffocates growth, and ultimately leads to a weaker Budget.
Last year when I came to this event, I said that in the following year we would no longer be borrowing to pay for everyday expenses.
Well I was pleased, and I know this was in the half-year statement in December, that we were able to get to that one year early.
And while the Budget is not back in with an underlining cash balance until 2019-20.
From this year 2017-18, right now, for the first time in a decade, Australia is no longer borrowing money to pay for welfare payments.
We are no longer putting welfare on the nation’s credit card.
That’s the first time that has happened in a decade, and it’s an important goal we have been working to for many years.
But the other goal has been to turn the debt ship around.
2017-18 is the year that net debt peaks, and then falls.
It has taken us five years to arrest the growth in the debt.
Five years.
We inherited debt growth at over 30 per cent per annum.
And over the last five years we have been slowing that down.
It’s like jumping onto the, I know I’m not in a Rugby League town so I promise you I won’t give too many Rugby League analogies this morning, but here’s one.
You try and pull out those really big guys in a game of rugby league, you’ve got to really wrestle them.
You’ve got to jump on their back and you’ve got to wrestle them to the ground.
And it often takes more than one of you to try and tackle Andrew Fifita in the field.
It’ll take you most of the afternoon.
He’s a huge unit.
And that’s what that debt has been like for us for the last five years.
As the Government, we’ve wrestled it and we’ve grabbed it, and we’ve pulled to the ground, because from now on, we’re paying down debt.
Debt will reduce, net-debt by $30 billion over the next four years.
Over the next ten years, it will fall by more than $230 billion to 3.
8 per cent of GDP over the next decade.
As Peter said the other night, it takes you a decade of surpluses to pay down debt, he knows, because he did it.
Net debt, $96 billion, paid down over the course of the Howard Government.
We’re now on that path to arrest that broken debt and to now be in a position to start paying it off.
The risk of Labor getting their hands back on expenditure will see that turning point turn the other way, and we’ll just see that line go up again, and again and again.
And we cannot risk it.
On gross debt, gross debt in this Budget compared to what we said in MYEFO is actually around $126 billion less, and that’s the product of budgets moving into balance and staying there, and net interest payments and interest payments falling as a result cumulatively.
And, as I’m sure Peter would remind you, that that on gross debt, the reason the line doesn’t run the same way as the net debt is because we’ve made, I think, the very prudent decision in last year’s Budget not to raid the Future Fund.
And they’re earning around about 7 to 8 per cent a year.
We’re borrowing at just over, or around 3 per cent a year.
Why would you raid a Future Fund that is earning for you at that level to pay your unfunded superannuation liabilities and not allow it to reach a level of maturity where the liabilities it’s supposed to offset align with the maturity of the fund which can them meet them?
So, in the short-term and the medium-term, over ten years it’s our commitment not to touch the Future Fund, and to allow the Future Fund to continue to keep [inaudible], and in the meantime we’ll obviously use issuing of Commonwealth Government securities to meet those requirements, because it costs us less to do so.
And we’ll continue to do that.
But the net debt trajectory, I think, is very clear.
And we’re on now the path of bringing that debt down.
We have the lowest spending growth of any Government in fifty years.
The lowest spending growth.
In this Budget, real growth in expenditure is 1.
6 per cent over the life of this Government, it’s 1.
9 per cent real growth.
And that compares to the previous government, where real growth in expenditure was running at 4 per cent per annum.
I always find it intriguing that Wayne Swan, he had a target of 2 per cent real growth.
He’d beat his chest about it.
He was only out by 100 per cent, which for Wayne wasn’t too bad I suppose.
But he was very committed to that 2 per cent, wasn’t he Kelly?
I think Peter will probably remember.
He was very committed, “it will only be 2 per cent”.
Missed it by that much – 4 per cent real growth in expenditure.
Labor just can’t control themselves when it comes to spending other people’s money – but we can.
And expenditure as a share of the economy will fall to 24.
7 per cent over the forward estimates, and that’s below the long-run average of 24.
8 per cent.
And that’s important to keep spending under control, to keep a Budget under control.
But there is another set of guardrails.
So you’ve got one set of guardrails on our fiscal strategy, which says that spending as a share of the economy will fall.
And that’s what our record is showing.
But the other guardrail is the tax speed limit, which we have set as part of the fiscal strategy at 23.
9 per cent.
Now, as you can see there, it’s not an unreasonable level.
I mean it’s not the long-run average, that’s at 22.
3 per cent.
It’s actually based on the average tax to GDP – and let me be clear here we’re talking about tax not all revenue.
It’s the overwhelming majority of revenue, but there is other revenue other than tax.
But tax is something we set.
Now, it’s not set at the long-run average.
It’s set at a period of Australia’s sound economic management, which was post-GST and pre-GFC.
So, that’s the period it’s based on.
And as you can see, it hasn’t been exceeded on too many occasions, and where it has, it’s only gone, hovered above that line before coming back.
Now, at the last election, Labor’s position on all the additional taxes; which was negative gearing, which was capital gains tax, which was raising the top marginal rate of tax, which was all of these measures, and increasing taxes on small businesses, increasing taxes on all businesses by the way.
All of that was going to take, over the medium-term, the tax to GDP to 25.
7 per cent.
As you can see from that chart, that is unheard of.
I mean Gough’s wildest fantasies never extended to taxing the economy that much.
But Bill Shorten’s tax fantasy will become a reality if he ever gets the chance to get his hands on tax.
If you don’t control tax, you can’t control your spending.
You can’t give Government’s blank cheques on tax.
They’ll spend it all.
We would never give ourselves that license, and Australians cannot afford to give a blank cheque to unbelieava-Bill.
He will spend it all and more.
How do I know that?
Because at the last election, he was going to take taxes to 25.
7 per cent of the economy, and he still had a higher deficit.
Labor’s spending always outruns their taxes and their taxes can run pretty hard.
And that’s the great risk.
And that’s the great comparison.
And that’s why the trust can be put in place, because we will control our taxes and we will control our spending.
That’s the responsible plan for a stronger economy.
And that is what this Budget is delivering.
But I must remind you of what those taxes are; a higher tax on housing, a higher tax on investment, a higher tax on savings, a higher tax on small business, a higher tax on family business, a higher tax on what you earn.
They’re all the taxes.
They now total $220 billion over ten years.
Throw that on the economy, and see what it’ll do.
How will your business and the people who depend on your business for their job, their wage, their livelihood, how will that affect the economy that they will live in over the next ten years?
But the one I hadn’t mentioned is very important.
And that’s Labor’s retiree tax.
Now, that’s one they didn’t mention at the last election.
And last night Bill Shorten made a whole bunch of rolled-gold promises.
But what he didn’t say is that at the last election he already spent all the money from his decision to say, “well we won’t have the Coalition’s Enterprise Tax Plan.
We don’t believe anymore that companies should pay lower taxes.
” They used to think that was a good idea, even Paul Keating thought it was a good idea, and they’ve walked away from all of that.
They’ve changed their mind on that, just like they’ve changed their mind on tax to GDP speed limits and all these sorts of things.
I’m surprised Bill Shorten is from Melbourne – or maybe it’s why – because if every time the wind blows he changes his mind, well perhaps that’s what’s been going on with his views on tax or anything else.
But on this issue of tax, what he has said last night, is he says he’s going to pay for another rolled-gold promise out of reversing the Enterprise Tax Plan.
Which means this by the way, we have already legislated tax cuts for small and medium size businesses up to $50 million a year in turnover.
So, what he announced last night very clearly was that if he is elected he is increasing the tax rates on small and medium size businesses.
They will go back up to 30 per cent on all of these small and medium size businesses.
The threshold for a small business of $10 million in turnover, which we increased to $10 million, will go back to $2 million.
So gone for them doing a GST on a cash basis, gone for them pooled depreciation, gone for them the instant asset write off.
A higher tax rate on small businesses in this country is Bill Shorten’s plan for the economy.
So, he can’t spend that again is my point.
He’s already done it.
At the last election, he spent every cent of the Enterprise Tax Plan reversal.
So, he can’t spend it twice.
The way he is actually going to, say he pays for what he announced last night is really the retiree’s tax.
He’s going to rip the tax refunds of people who invested and owned shares in companies, he’s going to rip it off them and say he’s going to give it to someone else, because that’s how Labor works with tax.
Our tax plan, our responsible tax plan, is about rewarding and encouraging investment and incentives for people to get ahead.
It’s about the economics of opportunity, not the politics of envy and bitterness.
We think people should be able to have tax relief without punishing someone else.
But Labor’s going to punish people by ripping the tax refunds off people who have just committed the great crime of buying shares in an Australian company, and you’re going to take that and recycle it and try and give it to someone else.
That’s theft.
It’s dishonest.
It’s shifty, and it’s unbelieva-Bill.
And that’s why people can’t trust him.
Every time you see his lips moving, he’s increasing your taxes.
Every single time.
Because he has to do that to even try and keep up with the rampant spending of what we know as Labor governments.
Now, I don’t want to delay it too much longer, Kelly, there are a whole bunch of other slides there, and for those who have a keen interest in other issues; on tax receipts, and spending, and iron ore prices, and all of these things.
I’m sure we can get into all of that.
I want to just get to one last slide to remind everybody about what a stronger economy looks like.
This jobs slide – that’s what a stronger economy does.
More than 1,000 jobs per day.
As a Government, since we were elected, almost a million jobs have been created.
That’s what a stronger economy looks like.
You want to know what our Budget’s based on?
Our Budget is based on commodity price forecasts [inaudible], we’ve all been very conservative on those, which has been recognised not only by us but by ratings agencies.
It’s based on, and the analogy works as much for AFL as it does for NRL.
It’s based on the 12 point turn-around principle.
Someone who gets a job is not receiving welfare, and they’re paying tax.
You stop the other side scoring, in your case a goal, in my case a try – a converted one – and then you go down the other end of the field and you kick one yourself, by getting someone a job.
Our Budget is based on the 12 point turn-around principle.
Getting people off welfare and into work.
That’s what Liberal and National Governments always do, and we’re doing it again.
At the end of the day, everything rises and falls on a stronger economy.
The security of your job, your business, your wage, your income.
The essential services you rely on.
Hospitals, schools, Medicare, disability services, affordable medicines, aged care - all funded, delivered and guaranteed out of a strong economy.
Bringing the Budget back into balance.
Paying down debt – all depend on continuing to build a strong economy.
When framing this Budget, there was one key question in my mind.
What will be the economy that Australians live in over the next decade?
Maybe your kids are in high school or studying at university in their early 20s.
Maybe they are only just starting out on the education journey.
What kind of economy do we want our kids to walk into when they finish school; their trading or apprenticeship, or University?
If you are a small business owner, what type of economy do you need over the next decade and beyond, to back in the risks and investments you have made to make your business a goer.
Maybe you are approaching retirement age and gearing up for life outside the workforce.
What type of economy will you live in?
The economy is not a theory, it not some staged reality television show.
It’s real life.
It has real consequences.
You live in it.
It defines your choices and your opportunities, perhaps more so than anything else bar your health.
When I left university in 1989, I walked into the last decade when we had a recession.
I was one of the lucky ones that managed to get a job, but for many others it was a brutal slap; straight from an idealistic realm within the university campus to a brave new world: a battered economy, sliding backwards.
In the ensuing two years, under a Labor Government, more than 400,000 Australians joined the dole queue, with 200,000 fewer Australians in work.
While the unemployment rate rose five percentage points to 10.
5 per cent, it was young Australians that paid the heavy price.
Youth unemployment rose eight percentage points to a staggering 19 per cent, with 200,000 more young Australians out of work.
This put a significant strain on the Budget, with one in five working-age Australians surviving on welfare.
Economic growth was reminisced about.
There was no growth in the economy for two years, in fact it was going backwards for much of that time.
And a story most baby boomers like to remind their kids about: how interest rates hit 17 per cent.
This was my reality when I went to work.
I don’t want that reality for my kids, or yours.
I want our kids to enjoy the benefits of a stronger economy over the next 10 years so they can achieve all that they want to achieve and not be held back by circumstances beyond their control and the mistakes of a previous generation.
I want our small business owners, young couples planning families, or older Australians preparing for retirement to plan for that next 10 years with a great deal of confidence about where their economy is heading, knowing they will benefit from a stronger economy.
Mark and Nicole Roberts perhaps embody what it means to be Middle Australia.
A house in suburban Sydney.
A mortgage.
A couple of kids finding their way in high school.
They work hard, but still find time to volunteer in their community.
A happy and honest life, but not one of indulgences.
Just like many Australian families.
This budget is for Mark and Nicole and their family.
It will mean they will keep around $1000 more of what they have earned.
It’s their money.
They earned it.
They deserve to keep it.
For this family, it can be a new washing machine.
It’s kids school uniforms and books.
It covers several months of catching the train to work.
It pays for half the power bill and more.
It fills up the petrol tank around 10 times.
So anyone that thinks that this tax relief is meaningless, they are clearly out of touch, caught in an almond latte fog.
Our tax relief will not only provide help for those bills to be paid, in Nicole’s own words as you heard them: “it will allow a bit more freedom in budgeting and also allow us to give the kids just some extra things that they would like to do.
”
More freedom.
Our seven-year tax plan also runs the sword through bracket creep, ensuring those who get more hours, do overtime, get a pay rise, get to keep more of it, rather than pay more to the Government.
When the second highest tax bracket is eventually abolished, most Australians earning above $41,000 will never face a higher marginal tax rate through their entire working lives.
So couples like Mark and Nicole, and their kids, are genuinely rewarded for their effort, not punished.
This is in addition to the welcome news we have already given the Roberts’ family on electricity prices, with the National Energy Security Board estimating annual power bills will fall by $400 on average for every Australian household from 2020, following the introduction of our National Energy Guarantee.
This Budget also provides certainty for their kids’ education.
Our legislated needs-based funding for schools ensures they are now getting $24.
5 billion more over the next 10 years.
And not just funding that is pumped into the schools without any accountability.
They don’t have to be scientists, Nicole says of her kids, but they need to be well educated.
All of this is reliant upon a stronger economy over the next ten years.
Steven Davey loves to call himself lucky.
Luke Howarth knows him well.
Trials and tribulations have been steady companions of the affable 62-year-old Brisbane grandfather.
But not that you would know it, according to Luke.
You wouldn’t meet a bloke with a more positive disposition.
He’s lucky, as he’ll remind you.
He’s lucky, despite the fact his sheet metal manufacturing businesses went belly up in the GFC.
He went broke, the bank took his factory, and he kissed goodbye to all his superannuation.
He’s lucky, despite the fact he had to give up his subsequent career as a landscaper when he had two car accidents.
Neither were his fault.
He’s lucky, despite the fact he’s had to put his latest career as a security guard on hold to undergo a double knee replacement.
Lucky.
That’s Steven’s view, and he’s sticking to it.
The beauty of people like Steven, is that they are not defined by their circumstances nor the long, bumpy road they have travelled to get here and the scars they bear.
They are defined by their outlook, they are defined by who they believe they are.
Out of work as a 60 year old, and with barely a few coins in his super account, Steven went back to school to get his security license.
It was strange being back in the classroom, he says, but ever the optimist, he used the opportunity to not only learn, but share his experiences with the young people sitting next to him.
That would’ve been an education in itself.
This Budget is for Steven Davey.
Australians are living longer, and that’s a good thing.
What we are doing in this Budget is giving older Australians more choice, more flexibility and more opportunity in how they live their lives.
More choice for a longer life.
Through this Budget, Steven will be able to contribute to his superannuation for longer; a huge benefit given his predicament.
Currently, he would have to work 40 hours a month to satisfy the activity test and be able to keep making contributions after he turns 65.
Our changes will give him a full year from when he stops working, to continue putting money into his superannuation account.
Every little bit helps.
Our help continues when Steven likely moves onto the pension.
We have expanded the Pension Work Bonus that will allow Steven to earn an extra $1300 a year without reducing his pension payments.
We have also extended the pension loans scheme to full-rate pensioners and self-funded retirees, giving him the opportunity to increase his income in retirement by using the equity he’s built up in his home.
With the extra financial pressures that come with a longer life, we are backing older Australians like Steven if they choose to stay in work, with a range of initiatives to help them transition their skills, provide wage subsidies for employees who take them on, and combat age discrimination in the workforce.
We will also provide free online skills and health checks at ages 45 and 65 to help Australians to prepare for a healthy and longer life.
And those who wish to stay independent for longer and remain in their family home, we are funding 20,000 more home care places, ensuring the care you need comes knocking on your door.
More choices for a long life.
All of this is reliant upon a stronger economy.
You probably haven’t heard of a bloke named Nick Holden, even though his work is proudly on display at the Sydney Opera House.
But then again, his work is also on display at your local McDonalds, so he’s no Picasso.
Nick lives in the Shire – up up Cronulla – and he builds walls.
Clearly not your average wall, but an innovative modular wall that you can build and shape yourself, and one that doesn’t look like a stack of bricks.
Like most Australians who for some ungodly reason decide to renovate their home themselves, Nick inadvertently stumbled across an immovable little thing called council regulations when he was attempting to build a wall at the front of his house.
There were restrictions based on underground council services.
So he found another way.
He liked his creation so much, and its functionality, he started his own business.
In those early days around 15 years ago, he was a one-man-band: buying the raw material, constructing the walls, answering the phones, writing the invoices.
He now has 50 employees, a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant in Kurnell, export orders from all over the world, and a handy $20 million in annual turnover.
We all love to hear success stories like this, when somebody steps out on their own, rolls the dice and risks it all.
And comes up trumps, all because of a bright idea and damn hard work.
But they don’t just happen.
They are stories that are enabled out of a strong economy; where businesses are championed and given the opportunities and the right environment to invest, grow, employ skilled Australians and thrive.
In this Budget, we are backing businesses like Modular Walls.
We are backing entrepreneurs who are giving flight to their bright ideas.
We are backing businesses to create more jobs, and continue the incredible jobs growth we have seen in the last 12 months – more than 1000 new jobs created every single day.
We have already legislated tax cuts for businesses under $50 million; tax relief that is already filtering through Nick’s business and having an impact on his workers and his community.
How do we know that?
Because as he told you in the video, Nick has always reinvested his profits back into the businesses and his staff, which has enable him to grow his operations, create more jobs and lift wages.
Lower taxes have also allowed him to compete on fairer terms with his global competitors when selling his products both here and abroad; remembering at 30 per cent, Modular Walls would be paying the third highest tax rate in the OECD.
In this Budget, we are also extending the popular instant asset write off for all businesses with a turnover up to $10 million for purchases of up to $20,000.
Nick won’t be able to use this measure this time around, but in the past it has enabled him to buy a ute, some forklifts and office furniture.
To support our businesses further, and create an environment where science and technology is propelling our economy forward, we are investing more than $2.
4 billion in Australia’s public technology infrastructure.
We are talking supercomputers, world-class satellite imagery, more accurate GPS, a national space agency and leading research in artificial intelligence.
This is about giving businesses the technology and infrastructure they need to not only drive innovation and compete on fairer terms with global peers, but actually lead the world in their field.
Giving our businesses an edge in a new smart global economy.
All of this is reliant upon a stronger economy.
When Jo Liete becomes overwhelmed by the tough times; when she finds herself doubting and questioning the fairness of life, she thinks back on that dream.
The dream that so vividly remains in the back of her mind, recalled freely in those dark moments.
There, sprinting across the soccer field, his arms and legs pumping wildly, was her boy Cruz.
She thought nothing of the dream at the time, given little Cruz was merely a bundle in her arms.
But now it’s a beacon of light for this Sydney hairdresser.
At 18 months old, Cruz was diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy, a rare condition that would eventually strip away his newfound ability to stand, let alone walk.
The condition causes a severe deterioration in the muscles till they simply stop functioning anymore, placing a great strain on vital organs.
He now whizzes around in his blue wheelchair, his name embroidered on its back, and a smile on his face.
Nothing has managed to rock this five-year-old’s world, or his upbeat mum, despite his dire predicament.
That dream keeps her thoughts on track and her optimism full.
One day, instead of his mum having to carry him upstairs to bed, he will be running down that soccer pitch kicking goals in more ways than one.
She knows it in her heart.
Most babies born with stage 1 spinal muscular atrophy die before they reach two.
Those with stage 2, can reach their teenage years if they are lucky.
Cruz is stage 2.
There is hope, genuine hope, in the form of a breakthrough drug called Spinraza which is seeing incredible results in the US.
But the treatment for one patient can cost up to $400,000 a year – about $100,000 for every needle; clearly a burden too enormous for the vast majority of Australians families to bear.
This Budget is for Cruz and Jo.
In this Budget, we are spending $241 million to include Spinraza on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, taking a $100,000 needle treatment down to less than $40 a script.
This is what Budgets can do on a stronger economy.
Yes, they build nationally-significant infrastructure projects, fund our schools and hospitals, create programs to get people into work, and help older Australians in retirement.
But they can also save lives.
Young Cruz, and the 168 other kids around Australia suffering from spinal muscular atrophy, will now have every chance of not only surviving their formidable start to life, but thriving.
Too many have left us too early and we grieve with those parents, but they more than any, would not want to see other families go through the same unimaginable journey they have.
In addition to listing Spinraza on the PBS, the Government’s first project as part of our Genomics Health Futures Mission will be ‘Mackenzie’s Mission’ – a new $20 million trial in preconception screening for rare and debilitating genetic birth disorders, including Spinal Muscular Atrophy.
This trial will provide vital information and hope for hundreds of parents who face difficult choices in starting a family.
All up, we are spending $1.
4 billion adding new and amended listings to the PBS, including medicines to treat breast cancer, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and a new medicine to prevent HIV.
On the MBS, we’ve added cystic fibrosis testing, 3D breast screening and MRI tests for prostate cancer.
All of this, of course, in addition to the record $30 billion in additional funding for hospitals between 2020-21 and 2024-25, courtesy of our new five-year public hospital agreement.
Guaranteeing the essential services that Australians rely on?
All reliant upon a stronger economy.
This Budget is a plan for a stronger economy.
Tax relief for working Australians like Mark, Nicole and lucky Steve.
Backing businesses like Nicks to create more jobs
Guaranteeing the essential services that Jo and Cruz are relying on.
Keeping all Australians safe.
Making sure the Government lives with its means - keeping spending and taxes under control.
Under our plan, there will be a stronger economy for Australians to live in over the next decade.
What have you achieved?
What are you going to do now?
What does it mean for me?
These are the questions Australians want answered tonight.
So let me get to it.
A stronger economy.
More jobs.
Guaranteeing essential services.
The Government living within its means.
That is what this Budget is about.
The Australian economy is now pulling out of one of the toughest periods we have faced in generations.
The Global Financial Crisis was significant.
But coming off our once in a hundred years mining investment boom had an even bigger impact, ripping $80 billion out of our economy.
This directly impacted Australians and their families, including holding back wages.
During this difficult time, the Government has been working to strengthen the Australian economy and get the budget back on track.
And we've been making real progress.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show that almost a million jobs have been created since we were first elected, as promised.
This includes 415,000 jobs last year alone.
More than a thousand jobs a day, three quarters of which were full time.
Businesses are responding to improved conditions by investing again, confidence is up.
More new businesses are being started.
We've backed small and medium sized businesses with legislated tax cuts and investment incentives.
We have invested at record levels to build the roads, railways, airports and energy infrastructure Australia needs for the future.
Landmark export trade deals are backing our farmers, miners, manufacturers and service industries to crack new markets.
We have made responsible Budget savings — $41 billion legislated since the last election — to get spending under control.
We are no longer borrowing money to pay for everyday expenditure like welfare payments.
We have retained Australia's international AAA credit rating from all three agencies, one of only ten countries in the world to do so.
Our national economy is strengthening, but it is also true that the benefits are yet to reach everyone.
This will take more time.
That is why it is important to stick to our plan.
There is more to do.
We cannot take a stronger economy for granted.
We live in a very competitive world.
If we make the wrong calls, other countries will 'cut our lunch'.
There is a lot to gain and much to lose.
We can't ease off.
In this year's Budget there are five things we must to do to further strengthen our economy to guarantee the essentials Australians rely on.
Provide tax relief to encourage and reward working Australians and reduce cost pressures on households, including lowering electricity prices.
Keep backing business to invest and create more jobs, especially small and medium sized businesses,
Guarantee the essential services that Australians rely on, like Medicare, hospitals, schools and caring for older Australians.
Keep Australians safe, with new investments to secure our borders, and, as always.
Ensure that the Government lives within its means, keeping spending and taxes under control.
That's our plan.
Turning first to the key financial outcomes in this year's Budget.
In 2017-18, the Budget deficit will be $18.
2 billion, less than half what it was just two years ago.
This will be the best budget outcome since the Howard Government's last budget a decade ago.
The deficit will fall again to $14.
5 billion in 2018-19.
The Budget is forecast to return to a modest balance of $2.
2 billion in 2019-20 and increase to projected surpluses of $11.
0 billion in 2020-21 and $16.
6 billion in 2021-22.
The Turnbull Government has now stayed on track for a surplus for six successive budget updates.
Over the medium term the projected Budget surplus rises to over one percent of GDP, without breaching our tax cap, consistent with our fiscal strategy.
The forecast outcome for 2019-20, as always, is subject to Treasury's assessment of economic conditions at the time of the Budget.
As a Government we have put constraints on how much we spend and how much we tax, to grow our economy and responsibly repair the budget.
Real expenditure growth remains below two per cent, the most restrained of any Government in more than 50 years.
This will see Government spending fall to 24.
7 per cent of GDP, below the
30 year average at 24.
8 per cent over the forward estimates.
We are also keeping taxes under our policy speed limit of 23.
9 per cent of GDP set out in our fiscal strategy.
Higher taxes to chase higher spending never ends well.
Australians always end up paying for it one way or another.
With the budget returning to balance we will start paying down debt.
Net debt will now peak at 18.
6 per cent of GDP in 2017-18 and will fall by around $30 billion over the forward estimates.
Over the medium term net debt will fall to
3.
8 per cent of GDP by 2028-29.
Gross debt will peak during 2019-20 at less than 30 per cent of GDP.
Over the medium term gross debt will be $126 billion less in 2027-28 than was estimated at the mid-year update in December.
It has been a long road back from where we started in 2013.
We are close to our destination.
We must stick to the plan.
Mr Speaker, I turn now to the measures in tonight's budget that form part of our plan for a stronger economy.
In this Budget we are providing tax relief to encourage and reward working Australians and reduce the cost pressures on households.
Tonight I announce a seven year personal tax plan to make personal income tax lower, fairer and simpler.
The plan will result in more working Australians paying lower rates of tax.
It will be enshrined in legislation.
The plan has three parts.
One.
Tax relief for middle and low income earners now.
Two.
Protecting what Australians earn from bracket creep.
Three.
Ensuring more Australians pay less tax by making personal taxes simpler.
Under our personal tax plan, 94 per cent of Australian taxpayers will pay no more than 32.
5 cents in the dollar.
That compares to 63 per cent if we leave the system unchanged.
This means more working Australians paying lower taxes on every extra dollar they earn.
The Turnbull Government believes that to create a stronger economy there must be reward for effort.
You must not punish people for working hard and doing well.
This is what underpins our plan.
Step one starts permanent tax relief to middle and lower income earners of up to $530 on what they will pay in tax next year, and every year after that.
This is what can be responsibly afforded, while keeping the Budget on track.
Those earning up to $37,000 paying 19 cents in the dollar will have their tax reduced by up to $200 on what they have paid in tax.
The average tax paid by Australians in this tax bracket is $1,900 per year.
For those earning more than $37,000 paying 32.
5 cents in the dollar, their tax will be reduced up to a maximum of $530 per year.
The average tax paid by Australians in this tax bracket was $10,400 per year in 2015-16.
4.
4 million taxpayers with an income between $48,000 and $90,000 will receive the maximum tax relief of $530.
For middle income households with both parents working on average wages, this will boost their 'kitchen table' budget by more than $1,000 every year.
For those earning above $90,000 the tax relief reduces to zero at just over $125,000.
Step one will be delivered by an additional targeted tax offset through annual tax returns.
This tax relief will not be clawed back by other tax increases, including the Medicare levy, which will remain unchanged.
Step two of the plan ensures that a pay rise, extra overtime or working more hours does not get eaten up by higher tax rates.
In the 2016-17 Budget we increased the top threshold for the 32.
5 per cent tax bracket from $80,000 to $87,000.
This kept 500,000 Australians from paying more tax at
37 cents in the dollar.
This threshold will now be set at $90,000 from 1 July 2018.
This will stop an additional 210,000 Australians paying 37 cents in the dollar.
In 2022-23 we will make more substantial changes.
The $37,000 threshold will be lifted to $41,000, stopping half a million Australians facing a marginal rate of 32.
5 per cent and the $90,000 threshold will be raised again to $120,000, preventing 1.
8 million Australians paying 37 cents in the dollar.
Step three of the plan makes our tax system simpler.
In 2024-25 we will simplify the personal tax system by abolishing the 37 per cent tax bracket entirely.
Australians earning more than $41,000 will only pay 32.
5 cents in the dollar all the way up to the top marginal tax rate threshold which will be adjusted to $200,000, to account for inflation and expected wage movements over the next seven years.
Under the Turnbull Government's personal tax plan most working Australians earning above $41,000 are likely to never face a higher marginal tax rate through their entire working life.
The plan is affordable and funded.
The total revenue impact on the Budget and forward estimates is $13.
4 billion.
The overwhelming majority of this cost commences in 2019-20, the same year the Budget is forecast to return to balance.
This is not spending or a give-away.
We are simply enabling Australians to keep more of what they have earned.
Our tax cuts are also not being achieved by increasing taxes elsewhere.
Everyone pays the price of higher taxes.
It weakens the economy and costs jobs.
You don't have to punish some people with higher taxes, who are already paying the majority of tax, to give others tax relief.
In this Budget there are other ways we are reducing cost pressures on Australian households.
Through the ATO we will be proactively finding your lost super and have it sent to your active superannuation account, ensuring it doesn't get eaten up in ongoing fees.
We're banning exit fees on superannuation accounts for when you want to change funds.
We will stop superannuation funds from forcing young people under 25 or with low balances to pay for life insurance policies they have not asked for or do not need.
The Pension Loans Scheme will be opened to all older Australians, including full rate pensioners and self-funded retirees, so they can boost their retirement income by up to $17,800 for a couple, without impacting on their eligibility for the pension or other benefits.
An expanded Pension Work Bonus will allow pensioners to earn an extra $1,300 a year without reducing their pension payments.
For the first time, the bonus will be extended to self-employed individuals who can now earn up to $7,800 per year.
And we will oppose unfair tax grabs on retirees and pensioners, by enabling everyone who has invested in Australian companies that issue franked dividends, to keep their tax refunds.
We will ease financial pressures on families in regional areas, by relaxing the Parental Income Test for access to Youth Allowance for independent students from January 1, 2019 by an additional $10,000 per annum and an additional $10,000 for each additional child.
The National Energy Security Board estimates annual power bills will fall by $400 on average for every Australian household from 2020, following the introduction of our national energy guarantee.
We will maintain our responsible and achievable emissions reduction target at
26-28 per cent, and not the 45 per cent demanded by the Opposition.
That would only push electricity prices up.
And we will not adopt the 50 per cent renewable energy target demanded by the Opposition that will also only put electricity prices up.
All energy sources and technologies should support themselves without taxpayer subsidies.
The current subsidy scheme will be phased out from 2020.
And we will keep the pressure on the big energy companies to give you a better deal.
Already this has led to households saving several hundred dollars a year.
In this Budget the Turnbull Government is backing business to create more jobs.
We have already legislated tax cuts for small and medium sized businesses.
Full implementation of our enterprise tax plan is needed for our businesses to remain internationally competitive, invest, create more jobs, boost wages and increase trade for smaller businesses.
For small business we will once again extend the instant asset write off for businesses with a turnover up to $10 million for purchases of up to $20,000.
In this Budget we are making sure small businesses don't get ripped off by other businesses who deliberately go bust to avoid paying their bills, with tough new anti phoenixing measures.
And we will invest more in our people, providing an additional $250 million for the Skilling Australians Fund to deliver business with the people and skills they need to grow their business.
Tonight we announce a new 21st century medical industry plan to create more jobs in this fast growing sector of our economy.
The health sector represents 7 per cent of our economy and 14 per cent of jobs.
Our plan will provide more support for medical research projects, new diagnostic tools, clinical trials of new drugs, scientific collaboration, and development of new medical technologies that can be sold overseas.
In particular we will back in Australian medical scientists through the largest single investment of the Medical Research Future Fund to date of $500 million over ten years for Australia to become a world leader in genomic research.
This is about building another strong and competitive industry in Australia that will generate income and jobs, from the white coats in the labs to the workers making new medical devices on the shop floor.
But it's not just science and technology in the medical industry we're supporting.
The Government will invest more than $2.
4 billion in Australia's public technology infrastructure.
This includes supercomputers, world class satellite imagery, more accurate GPS across Australia, upgrading the Bureau of Meteorology's technology platform, a national space agency and leading research in artificial intelligence.
It's exciting, setting up our manufacturing, agriculture, transport and service industries for success.
They rely on this public infrastructure to do their own research, develop new products and services and run their businesses more efficiently.
To support companies genuinely investing in R&D we are refocusing the R&D tax incentive to give more support to companies that invest a higher proportion of what they spend in R&D, over and above what others would just do anyway.
We're backing farmers to create more jobs.
In addition to better weather and GPS services, there will be additional funding to protect against pests, disease and weeds.
We are funding new technology to better detect biosecurity risks and we will increase our efforts to negotiate away technical trade barriers to agricultural exports in more countries.
Our $75 billion ten year rolling infrastructure plan will continue — strengthening our economy, busting congestion in our cities, making rural roads safer and getting our products to market.
Tulla Airport Rail.
Western Sydney Airport rail.
Brisbane Metro.
Perth Metronet.
The M1 upgrade on the Gold Coast.
At a more local level.
The Shoalhaven Bridge.
Avalon Airport.
New works on the Geelong line and an electrification upgrade for the Frankston to Baxter rail line.
The Bridgewater Bridge.
The Coffs Harbour Bypass.
The Bunbury Outer Ring Road.
Boosting the Bruce Highway from Pine River to Caloundra and Section D from Cooroy to Curra.
The Buntine Highway in the NT.
The Adelaide North South Corridor.
But we always know that more needs to be done.
That's why tonight I am announcing a $1 billion Urban Congestion Fund to support projects at a State level to fix pinch points and improve traffic flow and safety in our cities.
There will also be a $3.
5 billion Roads of Strategic Importance initiative upgrading key freight routes.
This initiative will boost our regional economies, backed by a new funding round for the Building Better Regions Fund.
A strong economy also needs a strong, accountable and competitive 21st century banking and financial system.
We will continue to roll out our stronger penalties, powers and enforcement to take action on misconduct in the sector.
The legislated major bank levy will continue and the Australian Financial Complaints Authority will stand up on 1 November and our Banking Executive Accountability Regime starts on July 1.
In this Budget we are also moving forward with our Open Banking Regime and consumer data right, giving small businesses and households more control, more choice and better deals.
Mr Speaker, our plan for a stronger economy means the Turnbull Government can guarantee the essential services that Australians rely on.
Just because you are getting older does not mean you should have to surrender your dignity or your choices.
We're living longer.
It's a good thing.
We want to preserve and increase the choices of older Australians.
To support the choice of older Australians who wish to stay at home and avoid going into residential aged care the Government will be increasing the number of home care places by 14,000 over 4 years at a cost of $1.
6 billion.
By 2021-22, over 74,000 high level home care places will be available, an increase of 86 per cent on 2017-18.
We will also be providing $146 million to improve access to aged care services in rural, regional and remote Australia.
We will also provide $83 million for increased support for mental health services in residential aged care facilities, especially to combat depression and loneliness.
And we will stand up for older Australians to keep them safe and prevent elder abuse, with new support services and a national online register for enduring powers of attorney.
In addition to the Pension Loans Scheme and Pension Work bonus changes, the Government will back the choices of older Australians who choose to stay in work.
This will be done by supporting them to transition their skills, providing wage subsidies of up to $10,000 for employers who take them on, and combat age discrimination in the workforce.
We will expand the Entrepreneurship Facilitators program, and create a new Skills and Training Incentive to provide mature age workers with the opportunity to update their skills.
We will help Australians plan for a longer and healthier life with new online skills and health check-ups at ages 45 and 65 years, linked to programs that can help them better prepare.
We will fund targeted programs run by local sporting organisations and community groups to encourage older Australians to remain physically active for longer.
For parents and students, our legislated needs based funding for schools delivers $24.
5 billion more over the next 10 years.
That's 50 per cent more funding per student, on average, over a decade.
This year schools will receive a record $18.
7 billion, with a legislated rise to around $30 billion in 2027.
The issue now is to focus on how the money can be best spent to give teachers the tools to equip students to grow and succeed.
That is now our focus.
In this Budget we are extending the National Schools Chaplaincy programme on a permanent basis, with a special new anti-bullying focus.
The National Partnership Agreement on universal access to early childhood education will be extended for a further year at a cost of $440 million.
On July 2, the Turnbull Government's new child care package will come into effect.
Our new five year hospitals agreement, which is being signed onto by the States and Territories, will deliver $30 billion in additional funding, a one third increase over the previous five years.
And following last year's Budget, funding for Medicare and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme or PBS has been guaranteed in legislation.
This Budget includes an extra $1.
4 billion for listings on the PBS, including medicines to treat spinal muscular atrophy, breast cancer, refractory multiple myeloma, and relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, as well as a new medicine to prevent HIV.
Lifeline Australia will receive additional support as will funding for Mental Health Research, with $125 million over 10 years from the Medical Research Future Fund.
The Government will also provide $20.
9 million to support parents and infants by funding tests for new conditions and ensure that debilitating conditions are picked up at the earliest opportunity.
The Government will provide $154 million to promote active and healthy living, including $83 million to improve existing community sport facilities, and to expand support for the Sporting Schools and Local Sporting Champions programs.
In rural and regional areas we have funded a plan to get more doctors to where they are needed through a new workforce incentive programme.
This plan includes the establishment of a new network of five regional medical schools within the broader Murray Darling Region.
And we have moved to guarantee rural and remote access to dental, mental health and emergency medical services through increased financial support for the Royal Flying Doctor Service.
Indigenous Australians also benefit from our $550 million commitment to address remote housing needs in the Northern Territory and $1.
7 billion through our primary health care model.
Our veteran centric reform package will continue with a planned additional $112 million in this Budget, as will our support for ongoing veterans' mental health and employment initiatives.
Finally, every dollar and every cent committed to delivering the National Disability Insurance Scheme remains in place and always will.
The Liberal and National parties can always be trusted to keep Australians safe.
Stopping the boats and keeping them stopped.
Protecting Australians from the threat of terrorism.
Hunting down criminals.
Giving our defence forces what they need to do their job to protect our values and our freedom.
Protecting Australia from those who seek to do us harm and exert unwelcome influence on our soil.
This is what the Turnbull Government is doing.
In this Budget we are taking further action, directly investing $294 million to harden up security at our airports.
There is also additional investment to improve scrutiny of visa processing and passenger screening, and clearance of visitors and goods at our borders.
And we are investing more than $160 million to help our police, criminal intelligence and domestic security agencies fight crime and prevent terrorism, including
$68.
6 million to disrupt, prevent and investigate child exploitation and abuse.
New powers will also be sought to back in States and Territories to crack down on offenders and criminals with outstanding warrants and fines by withholding their welfare payments.
Lastly, in this year's Budget, the Turnbull Government will ensure that the Government lives within its means.
A stronger economy keeps spending under control by getting Australians off welfare and into work.
After record jobs growth, the proportion of working age Australians now dependent on welfare has fallen to 15.
1 per cent — the lowest level in over
twenty five years.
Improved compliance and better targeting has also assisted in getting welfare spending under control and we will continue to take action in this area.
This Budget includes new measures to further improve the integrity of our tax system.
We are cracking down to ensure that R&D tax incentives are used for their proper purpose, with enhanced integrity, enforcement and transparency arrangements, saving taxpayers $2 billion over the next four years.
Our crack downs on multinationals have already brought around $7 billion a year in sales revenue by multinationals into our tax net.
But we need to do more.
We will close down another tax loophole opened up by the Rudd Government back in 2008 that gave foreign companies a tax break over Australian companies, by changing the tax treatment of stapled structures.
We are also further tightening thin cap rules to stop multinationals from fiddling with how they account for debt, to reduce their tax liabilities.
The next big challenge is to ensure big multinational digital and tech companies pay their fair share of tax.
Over the past year I have been working with counterparts at the G20 to bring the digital economy into the global tax net.
In a few weeks' time I will release a discussion paper that will explore options for taxing digital business in Australia.
At home we also need to shine a light on the black economy.
Taxes should be lower, simpler and fairer, but taxes must also be paid.
Honest and fair businesses and taxpayers are being ripped off by those who think they are above paying tax.
In response we will be implementing the recommendations of our Black Economy Taskforce, targeting sectors where there is higher risk of under reporting of income.
This is expected to bring in $5.
3 billion over the next four years.
These measures include outlawing large cash payments of greater than $10,000 in the Australian economy.
This will be bad news for criminal gangs, terrorists and those who are just trying to cheat on their tax or get a discount for letting someone else cheat on their tax.
It's not clever.
It's not OK.
It's a crime.
Mr Speaker, our plan for a stronger economy will create more jobs and guarantee the essential services that Australians rely on.
Our record of financial responsibility means that under our plan, Australians can plan for their future with confidence.
We must stick with this plan because it's working.
We can't afford to risk the alternative.
So to be clear, our plan for a stronger economy is:
Of all the features of our Australian economy, the most impressive is its resilience.
A resilience anchored in the indefatigable will of an Australian people that refuses to be denied their prosperity.
The compounding effect of continued growth in the face of decades of economic upheaval, financial crises, globalisation, floods, droughts, commodity cycles and technological disruption has underwritten our modern wealth as a nation and as individuals.
Growth has been our goal and constant.
But recently, maintaining our growth through the momentous transition from our once-in-a-hundred-years mining investment boom has been arguably our most extraordinary act of economic defiance.
The importance of this fact cannot be understated.
At the G20 in Shanghai, I met with the former Chinese Finance Minister Lou Jiwei.
He was amazed that as a commodities sensitive economy, we were managing to emerge from our mining investment boom without going into recession.
This was something he observed to me that few countries, if any, have managed before in their economic history.
Two years on, Australia’s successful exit from the mining investment boom eclipses passing through the GFC, not least because emerging from the GFC was aided and abetted by the upswing of our mining investment boom and external factors like the strong Chinese stimulus.
The truth is that Australia was not exposed to the same monumental impact of the GFC on our economic activity or the composition of our GDP as it did in other nations, where it was viewed in recessionary terms.
In the United States, they refer to it as the Great Recession.
In Australia, the threat was to our financial system, which proved resilient, thanks to the prudential architecture put in place a decade earlier by Treasurer Costello and the sound management of our banks.
In comparison to so many other countries, during the crisis our banks continued to lend.
That is why we survived the GFC.
Compare this to the shock of the unravelling of our mining investment boom.
More than $80 billion of mining investment disappeared from our economy in the years following the peak of the boom in 2012; a colossal six per cent of our economy, that’s equivalent to the entirety of our iron ore exports.
Gone.
The mining investment boom has also had a sizeable impact on wage growth.
As Treasury research revealed last year, this was manifested by real consumer wages pitching above productivity levels, propelled by an income shock from rising commodity prices.
This was not normal.
We were always going to have to return to normal as the boom ended.
This has been part of the reason why wages growth has been so sluggish in recent years, along with spare capacity in the labour market and lower inflation expectations.
This also occurred when company profits were on average declining.
The normal transmission channels that linked wages growth and productivity in the Australian economy were rudely interrupted by the mining investment boom.
In dealing with this our Government was left with another major problem.
Unlike Labor who had the starting point of the Howard and Costello budget surpluses when they responded to the GFC, by the time the mining boom began to subside, Labor had left the fiscal cupboards bare.
Labor spent every cent on an egregious and ill-considered shopping spree of bad ideas that not only cleaned out the cupboards, but put our nation deeply into debt, spending the proceeds of a mining boom that was never going to last.
Labor had gone hard, gone households, and then gone was the surplus and all of our fiscal buffers.
So here we are now in Labor’s debt, literally.
We have patiently worked our way through these challenges with no help from Labor or the Parliament.
Despite setbacks we have remained on track for a projected surplus in 2020-21 for five successive budget updates.
This has enabled us to so far keep our AAA credit rating.
We have also kept taxes as low as possible, while addressing tax sustainability and integrity issues and made the savings needed to keep Government spending under control.
At 1.
9 per cent, real spending growth is now at the lowest level of any Government in the last 50 years.
We are also no longer borrowing to pay for every day expenditure, for the first time in a decade.
Our borrowings are now raised to pay for critical infrastructure and defence spending, key components of our national economic plan, rather than pensions and unemployment benefits.
Thankfully, this difficult period is coming to a close and a new chapter is opening, as noted by the Governor of the Reserve Bank.
And we are seeing this in recent economic data.
While mining investment is bottoming, new investment in the non-mining sectors of our economy has returned, growing at 12.
4 percent over the last year.
Not that long ago, non-mining investment was going backwards by 8 per cent per year.
We have also seen an almost 10 per cent increase in investment in plant and equipment.
This is a baton change; an economy retooling and re-investing.
And this retooling hasn’t happened by accident.
It is one that has been pursued, assisted and secured by the Government’s policies.
Our national economic plan for jobs and growth has been getting results.
At the same time we have been guaranteeing the essentials Australians rely on, whether it is Medicare, hospitals or schools.
And putting downward pressure on living costs with our National Energy Guarantee that will reduce power bills by $400 for households, or delivering tax cuts for first home deposit savings.
And we are keeping Australians safe, delivering on secure borders and protecting Australians from the threat of terrorism and gang violence.
While it is true that normal transmission in our economy is being restored, we also know that it will still take some time for the reception to be fully picked up in all areas of our economy.
That is why it is so important that we stick with the plan.
We need these benefits to flow through, that is how you ensure no-one is left behind - by sticking to the plan.
Our economy is now entering a new chapter in which Australia is well positioned to prosper, but no one can take that prosperity for granted.
There is a lot to gain, but also much to lose, if handled the wrong way.
One of the key components of our national economic plan is our practical focus on science and technology that is transforming our way of life.
It always has, whether we like it or not.
The way we do business, the way we interact, has changed forever.
It continues to be amplified by the sheer scale of digital adoption and the pace of technological change.
There is a reason for this.
People like the benefits that these changes bring.
This will keep happening.
To secure Australia’s future, we must continue to adapt to be successful in this new economy - this smart economy - by mining its benefits and our own capabilities in science and technology, to ensure that Australians are not left behind.
And this is not just about white coats.
It is about applying technology and research to our traditional economic strengths - mining, agriculture, the medical industry and financial services - to create and secure more real jobs in these areas and beyond.
For small business, it gives them the tools to grow their business, create jobs, sell and export more and, importantly, stay competitive.
I think Australians understand this.
I think they know it’s true at a big picture level.
But I also think many doubt that it will mean anything good for them and their job.
Globalisation, digitisation, robotics, artificial intelligence, algorithms, quantum computing, the internet of things, the gig economy, blockchain - Amazon, Apple, Ali Baba.
For many this just sounds like a list of threats to their job or the jobs of their children.
They are genuine fears.
Fears of being left behind.
Fears that this may be all ok if you’re a physics PHD or were born with an iPad in your hand, like younger generations, but not otherwise.
But the truth is, like the mining industry, the economic benefits of the new smart economy extend well beyond those who are directly employed in the science and technology field.
There are many rings of jobs that flow out from our success in science and technology.
Like dropping a rock in a pond.
For example, how much more secure would your job be if you worked for a small business whose suppliers paid their bills on time.
Advances in financial technology are already making this a reality.
That will secure jobs.
Of course it is true that jobs are replaced by new technologies.
But it is also true that value created by the new inventions and advances by Australians in science and technology can be just as valuable as what we dig out of the ground.
Just like minerals, they will bring wealth and incomes to Australia that will drive further growth in our economy, which means more jobs and higher wages right across our economy.
The Department of Industry, Innovation and Science estimates that product innovation across all businesses lifts turnover growth by 3.
3 percentage points.
The OECD in 2015 attributed around 50 per cent of annual economic growth in its member countries to innovation alone.
Businesses that have invested in technology have also rewritten the rules and disrupted traditional markets and the share of profits.
McKinsey and Company estimates the share of company profits in developed markets that these nimble operators have snatched away from the big players is now more than 31 per cent - up from 17 per cent in 1999.
In considering the impact, we also need to update our thinking on where the jobs are in our economy.
Almost 80 per cent of Australians are now employed in service sector jobs.
This has more than offset the decline in routine manual jobs in manufacturing and mining that has largely occurred through automation and technology.
Growth in high-skilled creative jobs officially took the lead in the employment share in 2007 and has grown to occupy a 36 percent share of the labour market.
Routine manual jobs represent around 30 per cent.
High-skilled creative jobs are paid around 40 per cent more on average than other jobs, and are growing at a faster pace.
Under the Government’s national economic plan, which includes a strong focus on science and technology, almost a million jobs have now been created, with more than 420,000 in the past year.
Of those, one in five, were created for men over the age of 55 - that’s more than 80,000 jobs.
These are the workers that others said were supposed to be left behind.
This is just the beginning of what is being achieved from our national economic plan.
There will be more jobs where these came from if we stick to this plan and position Australia at the leading edge rather than the losing edge, in this new smart economy.
But to pretend there is a better way forward is to ignore reality.
Whilst acknowledging the angst, we cannot walk away from what is taking place around us.
Some will seek to play on people’s fears and tell them that they can stop all this and make things like they used to be.
I call this doona economics, just pull the doona over your head and hope it all just goes away.
Those who propose this are not on your side.
This will not only cost you your own prosperity, but that of your children and grandchildren.
So beware those who say, what have you got to lose.
The answer is plenty.
We owe our children better than the past.
And the past was never as great as we sometimes romantically remember.
We are facing one of those ‘sliding doors’ moments.
Will we let our fears drive our choices.
Will we play politics and indulge populism, and give our opportunity away.
If so, there are plenty of countries who will cut our lunch and steal our jobs, our wages and the investment that would otherwise come here.
As a Government, we made our choice some time ago.
To prepare our children and our current workforce for the future they will live in, not one imagined by sentiment, and build the infrastructure and policy support that will be needed to make this happen.
The Innovation and Science Australia 2030 Strategic Plan references the fact that Australia is currently competing in a $1.
6 trillion global innovation race in which the winners not only increase their share of global wealth, but improve the living standards of their people.
Right now we are running in the middle of the pack.
We need to move up through the field.
We are making progress but we have more work to do.
A feature of our commitment to science and technology has been our $1.
1 billion National Innovation and Science Agenda released in late 2015, supporting businesses to cultivate their ideas, embrace risk and embark on change.
Nineteen of the twenty four measures have been implemented.
A further three are pending the passage of legislation – namely access to company losses; intangible asset depreciation; and bankruptcy and insolvency reforms.
The two other measures are on track, but have longer timeframes for implementation, including the Square Kilometre Array radio telescope.
More than $700 million has been poured into funds that are commercialising research and focusing on high value areas like Biomedical science.
More broadly, we have opened up new avenues for innovation start-ups to receive capital funding from investors, legislating tax incentives for angel investors and early stage venture capital partnerships.
This has led to an 80 per cent increase in the amount invested through the government’s early stage venture capital program in innovative Australian businesses, that is around $300 million.
This is in addition to the more than 12,000 businesses whom the government has invested in through our research and development tax incentives, our CSIRO partnerships and Entrepreneur Partnerships.
These are high-tech businesses like Morse Micro that is creating the next generation of wifi chips, or Silicon Quantum Computing developing what its name suggests, with a special $25 million investment.
These are research firms like ProTA Therapeutics who are working to eradicate peanut allergies, Armaron Bio trialling drugs to prevent cell death resulting from heart attacks, or Colvera Clinical Genomics producing new technologies for the early detection of cancer in DNA fragments.
These are entrepreneurs boosting the potency of our agricultural crops, seeking advantages in energy storage and using our data to achieve better outcomes.
Our focus on technology is also helping us foster a cutting edge FinTech industry, delivering real benefits for consumers and causing welcome disruption in our financial sector.
Our regulatory sandbox allows FinTechs to develop their ideas and test their products in a controlled environment, without jumping regulatory hurdles.
We have introduced an equity crowdfunding framework to help entrepreneurs raise the capital that will put flight to their bright ideas.
We are implementing Open Banking, putting power back in the hands of consumers by giving them unfettered access to their own banking data.
Just watch the start-ups and entrepreneurs flock to the market with innovative products that help consumers find a better deal, especially now the new payments platform is up and running.
This change, the establishment of a consumer data right, will be used as a beach head for a data-led revolution in a host of other key sectors, particularly in utilities, and especially electricity and gas.
While we recognise the need to invest in these critical fields, it is not about writing blank cheques to everyone that has a good idea.
That is not the Government’s role.
Our involvement needs to be targeted to achieve maximum results.
This was the key message that flowed from the R&D Tax Incentive review which the government is carefully considering and will make our response to in the Budget.
The review included recommendations to improve the effectiveness and integrity of the programme, and improve research collaboration with businesses.
The Turnbull Government is committed to backing in R&D investment and the economic opportunities and jobs it generates.
But it is also important to ensure that the taxpayer’s significant investment in R&D, through this incentive, is generating maximum benefit for the economy and the Australian public.
This is not a tax incentive for business as usual.
This incentive has been taken for a ride by some and integrity needs to be restored.
It is not a tax concession designed for businesses to exploit as a proxy for achieving a lower tax rate.
We agree that the corporate tax rate should be lower to create jobs.
That is one of the problems with having a higher tax rate, it encourages the mining of tax incentives by large firms.
But lowering the tax burden on business should not be achieved by allowing arbitrary use of tax incentives, it should be done by cutting the rate.
Our focus is to relaunch an R&D tax incentive that is all about R&D additionality, things that would not have happened anyway, and rewarding the intensity of that effort.
Finally, just like in the old economy, in the smart economy no-one gets rich selling things to themselves.
In Australia, companies that look beyond the domestic economy and export are upwards of 10 per cent more likely to innovate.
Australia’s manufacturing sector knows these principles well, having been forced to refocus and reinvent themselves after a difficult period post the end of the commodities boom when their profits margins were brutalised.
Wise manufacturers recognised an emerging opportunity to not only create high-tech finished products, but add value throughout the global supply chain.
Consider the case of Textor Technologies, a Melbourne-based manufacturer supplying textiles for local car manufacturers.
Instead of walking to an inevitable end, they invested $17 million to upgrade their automation facility and used the government’s innovation tax incentives to ramp up their research and development, collaborating with the CSIRO to develop 3D moisture-trapping fabric.
That fabric is now used in the millions of nappies that are churned out of factories in Sydney, the United States and across Russia.
From Holdens to Huggies.
Textor Technologies now manufacturers 100 million square metres of fabric each year and exports its own raw product across the Asia-Pacific.
This is why we have been pursuing export trade agreements with our major trading partners - to accelerate the export opportunities for our firms and boost jobs and growth.
We have negotiated key trade deals with China, South Korea, Japan, together with our ground-breaking TPP which opens the trade doors right around the rim of the Pacific.
Our trade engagement is based on securing win-win outcomes, as was recently demonstrated in our arrangements with the US on steel and aluminium.
This enormous opportunity also puts the onus on our own SMEs to get digital and expand their horizon beyond their own bricks and mortar.
Around 15 percent of global goods are sold through e-commerce giants Amazon and Alibaba alone; acting as the perfect launching pad for entrepreneurs to get their product to the world quickly and efficiently.
A greater adoption of digital technology has the potential to increase Australia’s economy by 0.
7-1.
2 per cent.
Conclusion
Going forward our task is to keep investing in science and technology as it remains a key part of our national economic plan for jobs and growth.
The Australia 2030 Innovation Plan we commissioned provides an important guide to direct our next steps.
Investing in the national research infrastructure that provides the platform and building blocks for research and development more broadly in the economy, from both the private and public sector.
Investing in supporting Australians to be successful in the new smart economy - through our entrepreneurs programme, supporting small business to embrace new digital technologies that can help their business and our transition to work programs that help Australians gain the skills they need as the economy changes.
Continued investment in the science, technology, engineering and maths - or STEM - education of our children, especially girls, so they are equipped to deal with the even more advanced world they will live in.
Continue to leverage science and technology in the areas of our strength and greatest opportunity, whether that be in agriculture, resources, health or financial services.
Continue to foster the collaboration between business, entrepreneurs, research scientists, students, government agencies, universities and schools as a part of a natural, vibrant and self-propelling innovation ecosystem.
All of these measures are creating the jobs that Australians will rely on both now and in the future.
And, as part of our national economic plan for jobs and growth, we are committed to secure those jobs and thereby secure Australia’s economic future in this new smart economy.
To realise these jobs and ensure the benefits flow through our economy and leave no one behind, it is important that we stick to the plan.
2018 is a great year of economic opportunity for Australia, for Australian businesses, and for investments in Australia.
In the past 12 months, the Australian economy has delivered solid growth, entering its 27th year of uninterrupted economic expansion, while diversifying its base as the non-mining economy continues to strengthen.
We have witnessed extraordinary jobs growth that smashed records across the board - with more than 400,000 Australians getting a job in 2017, and more than three quarters of those full-time positions.
Businesses are buoyed by the tangible optimism within our economy and encouraged by improved business conditions that are stimulating growth and spurring investment.
And of course, empowered by a government that is prepared to back our businesses; willing for them to succeed.
Consumer confidence has strengthened with the most recent monthly survey showing consumers were more confident than at any time in over four years, encouraged by the strength of our labour market and a sense of optimism about the economy.
Clearly, there is a formidable platform for the Australian economy to launch into 2018, building upon the momentum that stirred throughout 2017, and deliver better days ahead for households and businesses.
Today, I want to provide you with an overview on what we are doing to continue to secure our opportunities.
The critical importance of last year's record growth in jobs and the effect it will have on the economy and wages cannot be understated.
More than 1,100 jobs every single day, more than 300,000 of those jobs full-time.
The records kept tumbling: the strongest calendar year result in over 40 years, the strongest calendar year growth in full-time jobs on record, the equal longest run of consecutive monthly jobs growth in history.
And a record that the Coalition Government should be most proud of - 956,500 jobs created since we first came to office.
This strength in jobs growth is eating into the slack in the labour market.
A continued tightening in the jobs market will see upward pressure, once again, placed on wages, as Dr Lowe reinforced again last night.
In sectors such as health care and education, where jobs growth has been considerably strong over the past few years, wages are growing faster than the national average.
More than 100,000 jobs were created in the health care sector through the year to November, so it shouldn't come as any surprise that wages in the sector are growing at 2.
7 per cent, compared to the national average of 2 per cent.
Normal transmission on supply and demand in the labour market is being restored.
And we are beginning to see the same pattern replicated in the services sector, with this week's AIG Performance of Service Index measure of employment accelerating to its highest level since December 2004.
In fact, this strong labour demand within the sector is reportedly leaving specialised fields with skill shortages, increasing the pressure on wage growth.
The rubber band is getting tighter.
In recent months, we have seen this tried and true principle at work in the US.
After a sustained period of strong jobs growth, wages in the US are starting to see some promising upward movement.
Average hourly earnings growth in the year to January grew at 2.
9 percent – the highest rate since June 2009.
Although it has big shoes to fill, 2018 is getting off to a good start.
Job ads jumped 6.
2 per cent in January to be 13.
8 percent higher over the past year.
This is the highest level of job ads since April 2011 and the best start to a calendar year since 2011.
Similarly, the NAB Quarterly business survey yesterday showed that the employment expectations subindex has risen to its highest level in almost a decade.
The show goes on.
The same could be said for non-mining business investment which dusted itself off last year to become a major contributor to economic growth, together with strong public final demand and exports.
The NAB quarterly business survey showed that expected new capital investment is at its highest level in over a decade.
Non-mining business investment is forecast to grow at a solid five per cent pace in both 2017-18 and 2018-19.
New private business investment is growing at the strongest rate since the peak of the mining investment boom in 2012, expanding by 2.
0 per cent in the September quarter and 7.
5 per cent through the year, to eclipse the 20 year average.
As I announced in the mid-year economic update, real GDP is expected to lift from 2.
0 per cent in 2016-17 to 2.
5 per cent in 2017-18 and three per cent in 2018-19.
This strengthening local economy is supported by a global economy that continues attract a steady stream of upward revisions from the folk at the IMF and World Bank, with the former now forecasting 3.
9 per cent in 2018 and 2019, have edged their predictions 0.
2 per cent page points higher already this year.
This is all evidence that the policy settings we have in place and continue to pursue, are encouraging growth and investment.
That's our plan, it's working and we are sticking to it.
If we are to secure the opportunities ahead, we have to fight to keep our businesses competitive in the global economy.
Uncompetitive tax rates are a drag on economic growth.
Similarly, businesses cannot pay workers more, when the Parliament insists on them continuing to pay the Government more in higher taxes.
This only leaves Australian workers being left out.
Making businesses pay higher taxes only makes it harder for the benefits of a growing economy to pass through to wage earners.
It holds back the pay rise that Australians have been looking for, it delays it even further.
Our global peers have grasped the notion with both hands, slashing business tax rates and reaping the spoils, proving an unassailable economic reality: Lower taxes means more jobs.
Lower taxes mean higher wages.
Lower taxes mean investment and innovation.
Labor and the Parliament's refusal to support lower taxes means Australian workers will be left behind on wage rises, as the jobs and the wage rises they should be getting get sent to the Government in continued higher taxes, and also go offshore.
Australian workers will continue to be short-changed on wages by Labor and our Parliament's insistence that businesses pay Governments more rather than enabling them to pay their workers more.
It is often said to me, 'tax cuts for business are not popular'.
That may cause the Labor Party to lose their economic nerve, to discard their core belief and 'wibble wobble' on their conviction for what is good for the economy.
But what I do know is that more and better paid jobs is both necessary and popular.
As a Government, you have got to be prepared to do the things that achieve the right economic outcomes, and not go to water the first time that someone makes a criticism of your policy.
This government will not relent to that.
Over our summer, the case for lowering business tax has been boosted by President Trump's extensive tax reform programme.
The tax cuts have had a profound impact on the psychology of the business community, given the extent of the reform that passed the Senate that perhaps surprised on the upside.
In travelling through the US last week, the shift in sentiment was palpable and the results were clearly evident: companies restructuring and simplifying their systems.
Businesses investing more in their employees, offering pay rises and bonuses.
Corporations pledging to invest more money on innovation, R&D and technological advancement.
The benefits are real.
Ask the millions of American workers who have a pay rise secured in recent weeks, or have held a bonus cheque in their hands.
The IMF last month confirmed company tax cuts would be a key driver for the US economy, and upgraded its global growth forecasts accordingly.
Professor of Economics at UNSW Business School, Richard Holden, citing a new empirical study published in the flagship American Economic Review, noted that "cutting the Australian company tax rate from 30 per cent to 25 per cent is not just good for business, and workers.
It also helps redress economic inequality.
"The benefits to workers,'' Professor Holden said, "tend to flow disproportionately to women, young people and the less skilled.'
'
This week we secured passage of the remainder of our enterprise tax plan through the House of Representatives.
Labor now have the chance to do the right thing, do what they used to believe in and back the only jobs and growth plan in the Senate that will increase investment, wages and jobs.
Another key part of our plan to ensure Australians can grab a hold of their own economic opportunities, is ensuring that our banking and financial system is as competitive as it is resilient.
That is why as a Government we are embracing financial innovation and disruption in our national economic plan.
There is no question Australia's banking and financial system remains both strong and resilient, a testament to the prudential measures employed to strengthen the sector and ensure it can once again, like it did a decade ago, stand tall in the face of a global financial crisis.
But while ever there remain barriers to new entrants, while ever power is shared by the few and not the many, and while ever innovation is not championed, the customer loses out and so does our economy.
Since elected, the Turnbull Government has delivered a raft of reforms geared towards unlocking greater competition in the banking and financial sector, to give Australians more choice and more opportunity to get a better deal on their loans and products and to access the finance and capital they need to realise their economic objectives.
This week saw the successful passing of our Banking Measures Bill through the House of Reps - a significant milestone on the pathway to a stronger and more competitive banking sector.
One of the pillars of the bill was to allow wider use of the term 'bank', giving all Authorised Deposit-taking Institutions (ADIs) the opportunity to officially market themselves as a bank and compete on fairer terms with our current banks.
Not only will this allow these smaller lenders to attract more customers, it will open up the lending market to a raft of innovative new players.
They won't be your traditional bricks and mortar banks or credit lenders but they will still be regulated.
Perhaps online platforms and tech start-ups capable of offering competitive rates and prices on banking products will put pressure on the incumbents to match or better, or lose customers.
Off the bat, that gives the green light to more than 55 current Australian lenders to call themselves 'banks', let alone the new online lenders that will take advantage of the change and set up shop.
Our moves to bolster, create room for, and champion Australian FinTechs will also be pivotal in boosting competition in the financial sector.
Australia punches above its weight on FinTech, ranking fifth in the world in the 2017 EY FinTech Adoption Index, proving we have fertile soil for innovators and creatives to not only survive, but thrive.
Digital disruption in financial services is changing the world, and importantly, that means putting power back in the hands of consumers.
Costs are coming down, speed and efficiencies are going up, as FinTech's continue to interrupt and push the establishment at pace with the creation of innovative peer-to-peer lending platforms, RegTech, data and analytics and personal finance apps.
Our enhanced regulatory sandbox, introduced in new legislation this week, will provide FinTechs with a place to safely test new financial products, we are supporting blockchain technology to drive innovation, and we have legislation before Parliament to extend crowd-sourced equity funding to proprietary companies, in addition to public companies legislated last year.
Competition is also being fostered through the Government's $1.
1 billion National Innovation and Science Agenda, with 19 of the 24 measures having been implemented.
Showcasing our commitment to increasing competition through innovation, NISA has poured more than $700 million into innovation funds that are investing in companies that are busy creating the next generation of technology and innovation breakthroughs.
I'll give you a few compelling examples:
As part of the broader NISA agenda, we have legislated tax incentives for angel investors and venture capitalists which we recently enhanced by allowing innovative financial service businesses to access these sources of funding, to get our innovative start-ups over the hump.
These are all liberating measures for our economy.
Yesterday, I released the exposure draft legislation for the mandatory comprehensive credit reporting regime - a game changer for consumers, leading to better deals on mortgages, personal loans and business loans.
And a game changer for increased competition in the sector.
The major banks will be required to report 50 per cent of their credit data - both positive and negative data - by July 1, increasing to 100 per cent a year later.
This transparency will open up the lending market to new players by enabling them to better assess the credit risk of customers and at the same time reduce their exposure to defaults.
The lenders will be able to calibrate their lending according to risk.
We are also recognising the role of customer owned banks and credit organisations, giving them the ability to raise capital and provide another avenue for competition.
That was yesterday.
Today, I am launching the Report I commissioned into Open Banking.
Open Banking will revolutionise the financial services sector, completely transforming the way Australians interact with the banking system, by giving consumers the right to share their data with other banks, other institutions and innovative FinTechs and get themselves a better deal.
After all, it's your data.
You deserve the right to maximise its value and use it to your advantage.
Granting third-party access to your data will allow rival providers to offer competitive deals, products that are tailored to your needs, and enhanced services that meet the customer where they are at.
Banks won't be able to afford to take customers for granted, and lock other competitors out.
Innovate or watch your customer walk out the door, armed with their data.
This disruption to the major bank stronghold on data will make the process of switching between banks less painful and help overcome the 'hassle factor' that sees customers stay with their current bank even when there are better deals on offer.
Importantly, Open Banking will lift the lid on competition and encourage a new wave of FinTech innovation and product development.
Mobile apps that allow customers to not only manage their finances, but get real-time budget and investment advice from experts over live chat.
Real-time product comparison services.
And a dramatic shift in customer experience, with nimble FinTechs capable of offering more intuitive interfaces, personalised services and tailored products.
More choice, more competition, more innovation, more inclusion.
Having committed to introducing Open Banking in the 2017-18 Budget, I asked Scott Farrell to report on the best way to put in place an Open Banking framework in Australia.
Mr Farrell and his team have prepared a first-class report, which maps out a practical and sensible model that is positively customer-focused and encourages competition.
Critically it spells out the need to build strong safeguards that protect customers' privacy and give Australians confidence in the system.
The report suggests that "markets work most efficiently when: customers are informed; there is transparency in pricing and in the quality of available products and services; there is a level playing field between competitors; and where the costs of switching between providers and barriers to entry for new providers are low''.
Open Banking seeks to reduce those barriers.
One of the most pleasing aspects of the report is the acknowledgement that Open Banking is likely to make life easier for small businesses, who often have less documentation and shorter financial histories that inhibit their chances of securing a competitive loan.
"A bank that has an established relationship with a small business,'' the Open Banking Report states, "is at a significant advantage over its competitors in the supply of data-related services.'
'
The review makes key recommendations on the scope of the model, and suggests banks supply at the request of the customer not only the data that has been provided to them by a customer, but all their transactional data and potentially outcomes of identity verification.
As well as increasing their ability to get a better deal or have products tailored to spending habits, giving customers the ability to share their transaction data with another party will ease the process of applying for new loans and credit cards.
Any data that has been enhanced by insights and analysis should not be included in the scope of Open Banking, the report suggests.
The Bank has done the heavy lifting on this data, and deserves to keep it for its own commercial gain.
Which leads us to who should be required to share the data, and with whom.
The review suggests all ADIs other than foreign banks should be captured by the regime, and due to transitional costs that may disproportionately affect smaller players, participation should be phased in, starting with the major banks.
Subsequently, it only seems fair that all ADIs should be automatically accredited to receive data under Open Banking.
If customers trust you to deal with their money, they likely trust you to deal with the data about their money.
For non-ADIs and new entrants to the market, the review suggests a graduated, risk-based accreditation standard to be employed, based on stringent security and governance rules.
And going to my point on fairness before, if you are approved to receive data, you should be obligated to share data when asked by your customer.
Perhaps the most significant opportunity goes to implementing Open Banking as part of the broader Consumer Data Right.
That is significant because it's a first for Australia — a trailblazer for other sectors.
As Mr Farrell said in the report, banking is not the only sector where customers stand to benefit from greater data sharing, with the Government looking at customer-driven data access being extended to energy and telecommunications.
A successful adoption of Open Banking could also lead to `write access' reforms, where third parties would be able to make payments from a customer's account on the customer's behalf - similar to the reforms we have seen in the EU's PSD2.
This would open up the possibility of peer-to-peer payment platforms that bypass traditional banking platforms, with money transfered simply by sending a text message; and services that integrate multiple accounts from different banks on the one interface.
And of course there is the obvious link between Open Banking and the development of comprehensive digital identities.
The Turnbull Government recognises this potential beyond Open Banking and, in November last year, we committed to legislate the Consumer Data Right following the Productivity Commission's recommendation.
So as you can see, this is a great opportunity to put the Australian consumer exactly where they belong - at the centre and in control; and I'm delighted to invite comment on the report's recommendations on Open Banking.
In conclusion let me simply say that the Turnbull Government has a strong economic plan for jobs and growth that is getting results.
We will continue to stick to our plan for jobs and growth, because we know that it will continue to deliver the results that will enable Australians to realise their opportunities in 2018 and justify the investments that have and continue to be made in our economy.
The Coalition has always had a strong compass when it comes to issues of economic management and the Turnbull Government is no different.
We will stay the course.
This is a forum which honours the memory and contribution of a great man of faith, of compassion and of community by gathering together to speak to his abiding interests in public life.
Gordon's life was dedicated to service – he was a good and faithful servant.
He served God and his community and in doing so provided what all leaders must, an example to follow.
As a Christian Minister, a social worker and reformer and a politician he ventured into all of life's difficult topics.
He was also someone who knew, in the spirit of Wilberforce, that the voice of faith, in particular the Christian faith, should not be driven and intimidated from the public sphere.
He knew that the separation of church and state was first and foremost to protect the church and the integrity of faith from the direction and influence of the State.
He was also a man who had great heart for our city.
The practical demonstration of his faith through charity commenced from an early age, amongst the homeless and downtrodden of Melbourne.
It continued the rest of his life, most famously through his 27 years as the Superintendent of Wesley Mission, bringing hope to those whom had not previously known it – and what a gift hope is.
Of course Gordon's passionate advocacy continued through his nine years' service as a member of the NSW Legislative Council.
He was a man of deep, heartfelt convictions.
Our former prime minister, John Howard, described Gordon as the "epitome of Christian leadership"[1].
Gordon was also a man who prized results; he understood business and always came to the table with a healthy serve of common sense.
He could be as hard-headed as he was kind-hearted.
Wesley Mission benefitted greatly - along with many thousands of vulnerable Australians across our country, and especially here in Sydney.
In coming here tonight I also acknowledge the continued wonderful work of the Wesley Mission and your long history – 200 years in fact – of caring for the most vulnerable.
Reforming welfare
Gordon understood the challenges our welfare system faces.
Our social safety net is, understandably, a source of pride for Australians.
It reflects the strength of our society: our belief in the fair go and our determination to help those in genuine need.
But few would deny that it could be better targeted and that it needs to be more economically sustainable.
Only this way can it be a safety net that Australians can truly rely upon.
You need no more recent example than Greece to illustrate this point – a safety net that was killed with kindness and good intentions.
A strong and balanced Budget supported by a strong and growing economy is crucial to this task.
Since the Coalition was elected we have successfully set about the task of getting the Budget under control to ensure that the resources that we have to support the most vulnerable are as well targeted as they can be.
In undertaking this task we have sought to place need above entitlement.
But the challenge is vast.
Right now, the Government spends one-third of its budget on social services - or $154 billion.
It takes around eight out of ten income taxpayers to go to work every day to pay this bill.
This will increase by $73 billion in the next decade, largely as a result of growing demands from the aged care, disability, carer and childcare systems.
Meanwhile, since 2004–05 we've seen expenditures double for job seeker allowances and age and disability pensions.
And this is while we seek to implement Australia's next great social reform, the NDIS.
While the Government is fully committed to this, the reality is that from
2019–20, the 0.
5 per cent increase in the Medicare levy will cover less than half of the Commonwealth's contribution.
By 2023–24, about $32 billion will need to come from consolidated revenue.
The NDIS should be the first dollar we spend out of our social services budget.
It is a programme that invests in people's ability.
It is about assisting people to be as independent as they can be – to help every Australian, regardless of their level of ability – to realise their potential.
Of course we will meet our commitment to the NDIS, but it will mean that we must ensure that our welfare system more broadly is targeted and fit for purpose.
20 payments and 54 supplements make our welfare safety net a complex and unwieldy system.
Most disappointingly the complexity and coverage of the welfare system can serve as a disincentive to being in work.
The best form of welfare is a job.
In 2012, in 19 per cent of Australian families no one had a job – that means that more than 530,000 Australian children were growing up in a family where no-one had a job.
The intergenerational implications of this statistic are chilling.
Almost 40 per cent of children who grow up in a jobless family will be welfare dependent by the age of 22.
We must do better than this.
That said there are fewer working age Australians receiving income support payments this year than in 2008, immediately prior to the GFC at 16.
3 per cent.
You have to go back to 1990 for a lower proportion.
At the same time our workforce participation ratio is increasing – while our employment to population ratios for Australians of working age has risen to 72 per cent, reversing the decline of recent years and the peak of 73.
2 per cent, also in 2008.
Youth unemployment is now at 12.
2 per cent, down from the peak of 14.
5 per cent in November 2014 and down from the 12.
6 per cent at the last election for the first time.
More than 360,000 jobs have been created since the last election, with around 315,000 in the past year alone – once again the strongest employment growth in seven and half years and more than ten times the monthly jobs growth than was occurring in 2013.
A job provides dignity, purpose and self-worth.
It delivers economic opportunities and helps to break the cycle of poverty.
It provides choice and the ability for Australians to exercise some control over their lives.
Everyone who can work, should work.
Because welfare cannot do what a job can do.
Ronald Reagan used to say that the Government can do a lot of things to destroy families but can't do anything to replace them.
The same is true about a job.
Welfare cannot replace a job – it can only mitigate the loss.
The welfare system can catch you when you fall, but it must do more to help people bounce back.
We can do this by working with the sector - many of you here now - and by thinking innovatively, welcoming choice, and building in sustainability.
This is what I would like to talk about tonight: reforming our welfare system, as well as the role superannuation can play in this pursuit.
It is an area of continuing interest for me as Treasurer, and as the former Social Services Minister, because welfare reform and strong economic growth go hand in hand.
A better welfare system frees up people to enter and participate in the economy; more people working means stronger economic growth.
You've all no doubt heard the word fairness being used particularly regularly over the past few years in the context of political debate on the Budget and welfare spending.
Many, particularly our opponents, are quick to invoke the word to justify their views that the Australian people should have more of their income taxed and spent by government on welfare.
But fairness I believe in Australia is not so much about income redistribution – as it is about a fair go.
It's not about an equal outcome but an equal opportunity.
Our welfare system is an economic stabilizer – not an economic equaliser.
It provides a targeted safety net for those who need it when they need it and for as long as they need it.
But our safety net must act to restore – not enslave.
It must signpost as effectively on the way out as it currently does on the way in.
That means we need to tax in a way that minimises negative distortions in our economy – such as penalising self-sufficiency.
In other words, to back people to follow their natural instincts, to get involved and participate in our economy.
We need to tax in a way that engages everyone to make a contribution, to share in our great national task – but also to let people keep as much of what they earn as possible.
Making payments, handing out government cheques can condition our population to welfare and state dependence.
Better to take home what you earn than what you are given.
When Labor was last in government they increased the income tax free threshold from $6,000 to $18,200.
This meant up to one million people would no longer need to fill in a tax return, they left the tax system.
Meanwhile, as at June 2015, around 5.
1 million Australians received an income support payment.
This is an increase of 10 per cent from 2000, when 4.
69 million people received income support payments – more than 400,000 additional Australians receiving payments.
We need more people who understand that the answer to their economic circumstances is a job – not welfare.
Our tax and welfare systems must support that understanding.
While the Government has already acted to reduce the number of supplements and has outlined plans for more, the complexity built into our current system mean they are laid on top of a framework of rates, eligibility, activity testing and compliance.
Under these circumstances, people in similar circumstances can have dramatically different experiences of income support.
This isn't how it should be.
It needs to be easier for people to understand and access support.
There needs to be a clearer pathway.
Of course, the Government understands that some intricacy is necessary given our welfare structure is highly targeted.
But this has to be balanced against the benefits of simplicity - which will also make the benefits of work clearer.
A more streamlined system - one that has addressed anomalies and the payments architecture - would go some way towards removing administrative inefficiency and high operating costs.
Take the example of two students.
One is on Austudy and working to complete a full-time graduate diploma; the other is a Youth Allowance jobseeker completing a full-time short course.
Both are looking to improve their skills and secure employment.
Both, however, are treated differently by the income support system.
The student on Austudy - who is regarded as having fully met their mutual obligation requirements with full-time study - can access the Student Income Bank.
This allows them to accrue more than 10,000 work credits a year, meaning that if they choose to work, they can keep more of what they earn.
The student on Youth Allowance, on the other hand, has to look for and accept any paid work that doesn't conflict with their study.
And if they do secure work, they can only accrue up to 1,000 work credits before their support payments are docked.
This is the type of situation we need to avoid.
The system shouldn't cause students, or any other Australian receiving income support, to hesitate before accepting work.
Another example of complexity obscuring the benefits of work is High Effective Marginal Tax Rates, or EMTRs.
They can become a problem where income support recipients are subject to a number of different income tests at the same time.
The complex interaction between income tests can mean a person actually loses money by increasing their hours of work - thereby choking their opportunity for advancement.
Here's another example: a two-child family receiving Family Tax Benefits.
When one of the kids leaves secondary school and, say, applies for Youth Allowance, the family becomes subject to two income tests.
This means their EMTRs increases, and the overall assistance for the family drops.
As much as possible, withdrawal rates across payments should be coherent so people transitioning between payment types are not subject to a sudden drop in income.
Through simplification, we can make it easier for families to understand the clear benefits of getting back into work, or working more.
We need to have the settings for work incentives and work expectations right.
That is the fair thing to do; the simple thing to do.
And with steps such as this, we can encourage more people into work or to work more.
Investment approach
I'd now like to turn attention to some areas of reform I'm particularly optimistic about - ones that highlight what innovative thinking and greater choice can achieve for the welfare system.
Firstly, the Investment Approach.
This looks at the safety net from a different angle, stressing the need for it not only to protect, but also to restore.
The approach, which has been used in New Zealand to reduce long-term welfare dependency, directs funding to where it will do the most good through innovative means.
For instance, under such an approach we would start by using actuarial analysis to assess the risk factors for long-term welfare dependency.
This would allow us to pinpoint which cohorts are likely to benefit from early intervention.
Then, with this analysis in tow, the Government could invest in evidence-based programmes tailored to make the most difference to those in need.
And each year, the policies would be reviewed by actuaries, providing an opportunity to refine policies so they can do the most good.
It's a promising area - and an innovative idea.
This is why in the most recent Budget the Government allocated more than $20 million to fund an Investment Approach.
We believe that if we can get this right, as they have in New Zealand, we can not only help people to become more independent, but also lessen the liabilities of the public purse.
Community and business partnerships
The second area of reform I wanted to highlight is the enormous potential of public–private partnerships, which the Government is currently exploring with its review of competition.
The reason for this is that we live in a world in which governments, from federal to local, face growing demands for more and better quality services - ones that meet individual needs.
If we can find innovative ways to deliver such services, we'll be able to better meet these challenges.
And if we can introduce more choice, we can improve the quality of the services received, particularly in the welfare system.
Let me give you an example of the success such partnerships are having right here in New South Wales.
The social benefit bond initiative uses an innovative financing method whereby returns are based on achieving agreed social outcomes.
Private investors provide capital to fund social programmes and, if the social outcomes are achieved and there are savings to the Government, the Government can use these savings to pay ‘interest' on the private investment.
Not only does this improve efficiency and save money - it also has the potential to increase the reach of social programmes and provide better quality services to those who need them.
One of the two initiatives currently underway is the Newpin bond, with UnitingCare Burnside partnering with Social Ventures Australia to deliver a child protection and parent education programme.
Already it has seen better continuity of care for families, as well as greater transparency and data reporting so that more improvements can be made.
And this success in New South Wales, under Premier Mike Baird's leadership, follows similar good news stories across the globe.
In Canada, social benefit bonds are being used to help single parents; in Belgium, it's giving unemployed migrants a leg-up; in Ireland, it's changing the lives of homeless people.
These are the type of new, innovative ideas that place choice and sustainability at the very heart of welfare - and this is what we must do if we are to change Australia's social landscape for the better.
Superannuation
Superannuation also plays a significant role in welfare reform.
Our retirement income system is underpinned, in large part, by the Age Pension and superannuation.
The Age Pension is the ultimate welfare safety net: it provides security for those Australians who, for various reasons, have not had the opportunity to save for their retirement.
Superannuation, on the other hand creates independence in retirement; it also means greater security and over time it will reduce the reliance on the Age Pension.
But superannuation is a pretty rigid system that could do with refining - particularly if we are serious about reforming welfare.
One of those areas is the reduced superannuation potential of people who take time out of the workforce, such as women and carers.
We know that these groups accumulate lower superannuation balances than men and non-carers and, as a result, are more likely to rely on the Age Pension.
The most recent ABS figures, for instance, reveal that the average superannuation balance for men is about $135,000 while for women it is $83,000.
The figure is hardly surprising when you consider that last financial year the labour participation rate for women was about 65 per cent – which is 13 per cent lower than for men.
And when it comes to primary carers, the latest data shows that the participation rate is 42 per cent compared with 69 per cent for non-carers.
These are remarkable figures, and the Government is examining how we can tackle such deficiencies - how we can, in effect, have a superannuation system that reflects changes in people's lives.
Several innovative ideas have already been proposed.
One is that we could potentially lift the cap on superannuation contributions for those who experience lengthy disruptions in their working life.
This would give them more opportunity to top up their super, and introduce more flexibility to the system.
Of course, all ideas will be carefully reviewed and considered.
But it's clear that tax incentives for superannuation must put those Australians at risk of not being independent in retirement into a stronger position.
Another important aspect of superannuation is the Government's plan to boost choice to enable greater retirement outcomes for Australians.
Through our recent response to the Financial System Inquiry, the Government is taking action to make it easier for retirees to access retirement income products that better meet their needs.
To that end, the Government will facilitate trustees of superannuation funds preselecting comprehensive income products for retirement (CIPRs) for their members.
The pre-selection of these products will help guide members as they approach retirement, and also help retirees achieve higher incomes throughout their retirement.
Meanwhile, when it comes to choice we agreed to extend choice of fund arrangements to more employees by removing the ‘deemed' choice for certain enterprise agreements and workplace determinations.
This could eventually extend choice to up to 40 per cent of the 2 million employees who are currently denied a choice of fund.
People should be able to make retirement savings decisions with their own personal circumstances in mind.
We know that not having a choice of fund can result in employees having to pay multiple fees and insurance premiums, reducing their capacity to accumulate savings.
And not being able to choose a fund can lead to disengagement.
Closing remarks
A couple of years before he passed away, Gordon gave a sermon in which he quoted 1st Corinthians:
"The body is not made up of one part but of many..
.
If one part suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is honoured, every part rejoices with it.
" [2]
In that passage, Paul is talking about the church, but it could be applied to our democracy and society as well.
We are connected.
Whether we are acutely aware of it or not, we partake in each other's sufferings and joys.
That's why it's so important that we care for people in need, and why our welfare system must do what we need it to do, as efficiently and effectively as it can.
It must be sustainable.
It must offer choice and flexibility.
It must meet the needs of the people it's there to serve.
Otherwise it's just a very expensive sop to our collective conscience.
That is not what the Government wants to see.
We want to change how we look at welfare so it is more innovative, embraces choice and is sustainable into the future.
Australians deserve a system that not only treats people fairly, but also builds their capability and encourages them to work.
And when the time comes for them to retire, they can enjoy independence.
That is, without doubt, what a welfare system should be in 21st century Australia.
It is with humility and a deep sense of appreciation to the electors of Cook that I rise to make my maiden speech in this House.
Today I wish to pay tribute to those who have been instrumental in my journey and to share the values and vision that I intend to bring to this House.
I begin by acknowledging the first Australians, in particular the Gweigal people of the Dharawal nation of southern Sydney, who were the first to encounter Lieutenant James Cook, the namesake of my electorate, at Kurnell almost 240 years ago.
I also commence by expressing my sincere appreciation to the people and families of the Sutherland shire in my electorate of Cook for placing their trust in me on this first occasion.
The shire community is a strong one.
It is free of pretension and deeply proud of our nation’s heritage.
Like most Australians, we are a community knit together by our shared commitment to family, hard work and generosity.
We share a deep passion for our local natural environment and embrace what Teddy Roosevelt called the vigorous life, especially in sports.
It is also a place where the indomitable entrepreneurial spirit of small business has flourished, particularly in recent years.
In short, the shire is a great place to live and raise a family.
As the federal member for Cook, I want to keep it that way by ensuring that Australia remains true to the values that have made our nation great and by keeping our economy strong so that families and small business can plan for their future with confidence.
At a local level, families—in particular carers—will come under increasing pressure because of the inability of local services to meet the changing needs of an ageing population.
The character of our local area is also threatened by a failure to deliver critical state infrastructure such as the F6 extension for our current population, let alone the population growth targets set by the state government for the future.
On the Kurnell peninsula, the modern birthplace of our nation, we must reverse 150 years of environmental neglect, most recently demonstrated by the construction of Labor’s desalination plant—a plant that New South Wales does not need and the shire community does not want.
We must also combat the negative influences on our young people that lead to depression, suicide, self-harm, abuse and antisocial behaviour that in turn threatens our community.
We need to help our young people make positive choices for their lives and be there to help them get their lives back on track when they fall.
For the past nine years, the Hon.
Bruce Baird has ably represented the Cook electorate.
Bruce Baird is a man of achievement, integrity, faith and, above all, compassion.
He has set a high standard.
I thank him for his service, his personal guidance over many years and for being here today.
My colleagues and I would not be here without the support of the Liberal Party and the thousands of volunteers who believe in our cause.
They provide the ultimate in political support—they show up.
And, as we know, history is made by those who show up.
I thank them all, especially in my electorate of Cook.
I particularly thank my good friend Kevin Schreiber; my campaign team, led by Michael Douglas and Scott Chapman; our local Liberal shire councillors; and my local, state and federal parliamentary colleagues, especially those here today.
For almost five years I had the privilege to serve as the State Director of the Liberal Party of New South Wales.
Then, as now, I was surrounded by people who walked the journey with me.
I thank them all for their support, especially Chris McDiven, Rhondda Vanzella, the Hon.
Shane Stone, Senator Bill Heffernan, David Gazard and the Hon.
John Howard, the greatest Prime Minister since Sir Robert Menzies.
In addition to working in politics, the great bulk of my professional experience has been working with industry.
I thank the many staff, colleagues and industry leaders I worked with during that time, in particular Peter Verwer and the Hon.
Tim Fischer, who provided great guidance and support.
From my early days at the Property Council of Australia to my many roles in the tourism industry, I have developed a healthy respect for the passion and commitment of Australian businesspeople, especially those in small business.
It is business that creates jobs and it is business that drives our economy.
This is achieved through the initiative, enterprise and sacrifice of business owners and the hard work, skill and professionalism of the employees they lead.
In this parliament, let us make laws that encourage businesses and their employees to excel.
Let us ensure that business is not unreasonably burdened by our efforts but, rather, empowered to grow and create more jobs, especially locally.
Let us also make sure there are strong incentives, as well as protections, for all employees—not a one-size-fits-all approach—and ensure we preserve the right of the individual to negotiate their own conditions directly with their employer, should they wish to do so.
Furthermore, let us acknowledge that we live in a highly competitive global economy and not deceive our constituents that we can tame these forces.
Rather, let us protect our way of life by ensuring our economy is strong, equipped and positioned to perform.
I turn now to the most significant influences on my life—my family and my faith.
Family is the stuff of life and there is nothing more precious.
I thank my family members here in the gallery today for their support.
It is my hope that all Australians could have the same caring and supportive environment that was provided to me by my parents, John and Marion Morrison, and my late grandparents, Mardie and Sandy Smith and Douglas and Noel Morrison, whom I honour in this place today.
My parents laid the foundation for my life.
Together with my brother, Alan, they demonstrated through their actions their Christian faith and the value they placed on public and community service.
In our family, it has never been what you accumulate that matters but what you contribute.
I thank them for their sacrifice, love and, above all, their example.
To my wife, Jenny, on Valentine’s Day: words are not enough.
She has loved and supported me in all things and made countless sacrifices, consistent with her generous, selfless and caring nature.
However, above all, I thank her for her determination to never give up hope for us to have a child.
After 14 years of bitter disappointments, God remembered her faithfulness and blessed us with our miracle child, Abbey Rose, on the seventh of the seventh of the seventh, to whom I dedicate this speech today in the hope of an even better future for her and her generation.
Growing up in a Christian home, I made a commitment to my faith at an early age and have been greatly assisted by the pastoral work of many dedicated church leaders, in particular the Reverend Ray Green and pastors Brian Houston and Leigh Coleman.
My personal faith in Jesus Christ is not a political agenda.
As Lincoln said, our task is not to claim whether God is on our side but to pray earnestly that we are on His.
For me, faith is personal, but the implications are social—as personal and social responsibility are at the heart of the Christian message.
In recent times it has become fashionable to negatively stereotype those who profess their Christian faith in public life as ‘extreme’ and to suggest that such faith has no place in the political debate of this country.
This presents a significant challenge for those of us, like my colleague, who seek to follow the example of William Wilberforce or Desmond Tutu, to name just two.
These leaders stood for the immutable truths and principles of the Christian faith.
They transformed their nations and, indeed, the world in the process.
More importantly, by following the convictions of their faith, they established and reinforced the principles of our liberal democracy upon which our own nation is built.
Australia is not a secular country—it is a free country.
This is a nation where you have the freedom to follow any belief system you choose.
Secularism is just one.
It has no greater claim than any other on our society.
As US Senator Joe Lieberman said, the Constitution guarantees freedom of religion, not from religion.
I believe the same is true in this country.
So what values do I derive from my faith?
From my faith I derive the values of loving-kindness, justice and righteousness, to act with compassion and kindness, acknowledging our common humanity and to consider the welfare of others; to fight for a fair go for everyone to fulfil their human potential and to remove whatever unjust obstacles stand in their way, including diminishing their personal responsibility for their own wellbeing; and to do what is right, to respect the rule of law, the sanctity of human life and the moral integrity of marriage and the family.
We must recognise an unchanging and absolute standard of what is good and what is evil.
Desmond Tutu put it this way:
These are my principles.
My vision for Australia is for a nation that is strong, prosperous and generous: strong in our values and our freedoms, strong in our family and community life, strong in our sense of nationhood and in the institutions that protect and preserve our democracy; prosperous in our enterprise and the careful stewardship of our opportunities, our natural environment and our resources; and, above all, generous in spirit, to share our good fortune with others, both at home and overseas, out of compassion and a desire for justice.
Australia is a strong nation.
It is the product of more than 200 years of sacrifice—most significantly by those who have served in our defence forces, both here and overseas, and by those who have fallen, particularly those who have fallen most recently, and to whom I express my profound gratitude.
But a strong country is also one that is at peace with its past.
I do not share the armband view of history, black or otherwise.
I like my history in high-definition, widescreen, full, vibrant colour.
There is no doubt that our Indigenous population has been devastated by the inevitable clash of cultures that came with the arrival of the modern world in 1770 at Kurnell in my electorate.
This situation is not the result of any one act but of more than 200 years of shared ignorance, failed policies and failed communities.
And we are not alone: our experience is shared by every other modern nation that began this way.
There is much for us all to be sorry for.
Sadly, those who will be most sorry are the children growing up in Indigenous communities today, whose life chances are significantly less than the rest of us.
We can choose to sit in judgement on previous generations, thinking we would have done it differently.
But would we?
Hindsight is a wonderful thing.
Nor can we compare the world we live in today with the world that framed the policies of previous generations.
So let us not judge.
Rather, having apologised for our past—as I was proud to do in this place yesterday—let us foster a reconciliation where true forgiveness can emerge and we work together to remove the disadvantage of our Indigenous communities, not out of a sense of guilt or recompense for past failures but because it is the humane and right thing to do.
Having said this, we cannot allow a national obsession with our past failures to overwhelm our national appetite for celebrating our modern stories of nationhood.
We must celebrate our achievements and acknowledge our failures at least in equal measure.
We should never feel the need to deny our past to embrace our future.
On 29 April 1770 James Cook landed at Kurnell and so began the modern Australian story.
James Cook was a man before his time.
He embodied the true spirit of the Enlightenment age.
Against a backdrop of brutality and ignorance, he displayed an amazing empathy and respect for his own crew and the people and lands he visited.
He should be revered as one of the most significant figures in our national history.
On 29 April 2020 we will mark the 250th anniversary of Cook’s landing at Kurnell.
This should be the most significant national celebration since our Bicentenary.
This will require federal, state and local government to overcome decades of neglect of the Kurnell Peninsula and a failure to manage the site with the respect it deserves, particularly at the state level.
The time has come to truly respect and rehabilitate our nation’s birthplace at Kurnell.
Australia is a prosperous country.
Our prosperity has produced significant dividends—in particular, jobs for millions of Australians.
The reason we have working families in Australia is that they have jobs.
They have jobs today because of the strong economic management of the Howard government, which provided an environment for business to grow and prosper.
After 11½ years of the Howard government the Australian economy is the strongest it has ever been—no ifs, no buts.
I would like to honour today the member for Higgins, the Hon.
Peter Costello, for his leadership of our economy over this time.
He is our finest Treasurer ever and that position is in no present threat.
Yet the storm clouds are gathering.
We must cast our eyes forward and embrace a new round of economic reforms.
Of particular significance is the need to reform our federation.
However, we must proceed carefully.
The realignment of our federation, particularly in priority areas such as water, taxation and infrastructure, must be about delivering a better system of governance for our population and our economy.
It should not be done to cover for the inability of state governments to do their jobs, especially in health and education.
There is a remedy to the incompetence of state governments that requires no constitutional change—vote them out, especially in New South Wales.
We must also give attention to local government and give them a direct voice in how our nation is governed.
They should be given a clear and mandated role in service delivery and the means to do their job.
Commonwealth, state and local government should operate like a three-legged stool, each supporting the other.
At present it is more like a three-legged dog.
We are a prosperous people, but this prosperity is not solely for our own benefit; it comes with a responsibility to invest back into our communities.
Our communities are held together by the selfless service of volunteers.
We must work to value their service and encourage more of our community to join the volunteer ranks and assist local organisations engage and retain today’s volunteers, particularly from younger generations.
We must also appreciate that our not-for-profit sector has the potential to play a far greater role in the delivery of community services than is currently recognised.
As global citizens, we must also recognise that our freedom will always be diminished by the denial of those same freedoms elsewhere, whether in Australia or overseas.
Social entrepreneurs such as David Bussau, our Senior Australian of the Year, have shown the way forward.
Our attention in this area cannot be limited only to areas of strategic self-interest.
It must be pursued as the responsibility of our common humanity.
In Africa, 6,500 people die every day from preventable and treatable diseases.
Over just six weeks that is more than the 250,000 people estimated to have tragically died following the tsunami tragedy that evoked such a compassionate and generous response from Australians—and I commend them for that.
Africa, though, is a humanitarian tragedy on an unimaginable scale.
It is a true moral crisis that eclipses all others.
The African tragedy is driven by war, poverty, disease, famine, corruption, injustice and an evil that is robbing generations of Africans, our fellow human beings, of their future.
We must engage as individuals and communities to confront these issues—not just as governments.
We have all heard the call to make poverty history.
Let us do this by first making poverty our own personal business.
The Howard government increased annual spending on foreign aid to $3.
2 billion.
The new government has committed to continue to increase this investment and I commend it for doing so.
However, we still must go further.
If we doubt the need, let us note that in 2007 the total world budget for global aid accounted for only one-third of basic global needs in areas such as education, general health, HIV-AIDS, water treatment and sanitation.
This leaves a sizeable gap.
The need is not diminishing, nor can our support.
It is the Australian thing to do.
In conclusion, it says in the Book of Joel, ‘Your old men will dream dreams; your young men will see visions.
’ Let us have in this place a vision of young men and women that realises the dreams of generations past—the dreaming of Dharawal elders of ancient times, the dreams of Cook and his era of discovery and enlightenment and the dreams of my grandparents’ generation, who fought wars, survived the Great Depression and gave birth to our great Liberal Party with the dream of a brighter day for those who came after them.
May God bless and guide us all in this place as we serve those who have had the good grace to send us here on their behalf.
On all these counts we have been successful in meeting our commitments to the Australian people.
That is in stark contrast to what happened back in 2007 when the people of Australia chose to go on a different path and elect a Labor government.
And I can tell you that the decision they made in 2007 they have paid for for a decade because of the fiscal recklessness of the former Labor Party.
We have stopped the boats and we have ensured they have remained stopped.
But the Labor Party have still learnt none of the lessons of their failures in border protection when they were in office.
Only a few months ago they came into this place and voted to weaken our borders.
It was a carbon tax that the Labor Party said they would never introduce when they went to an election.
They then did exactly the opposite thing, and it took this government to abolish that carbon tax.
But what do we learn now?
The Leader of the Opposition wants to bring the carbon tax back in the form of his reckless emission targets that will put up the price of everything.
Under the leadership of the Deputy Prime Minister, we are building the infrastructure of the 21st century, managing our population growth into the future, and ensuring that our rural centres are connected with our major centres and that people can get home sooner and safer through our congestion-busting fund.
On Tuesday night, for the first time in 12 years, we were able to bring the budget back into a surplus, back in the black.
Labor is still in the red.
That's what we're seeing, and that's what you'll see tonight.
Our budget is back into the black.
The last time the Labor Party saw a budget surplus, as we know, was in 1989.
The Leader of the Opposition—I don't know what his hairstyle was like back then, but he was running around, I know, at those Labor vanguard conferences at the time, whipping it up with his friends at parties and goodness knows what.
That was the last time that we saw a budget surplus delivered by the Labor Party.
But under this government that surplus has been achieved, the boats have been stopped, the carbon tax has been abolished and we're building the infrastructure of the 21st century.
t’s happening, right here and right now.
Our economy is shifting gears, and we are entering a new chapter of growth.
The downturn from the mining investment boom that had restrained our economy for many years, has all but run its course.
Reserve Bank Governor Philip Lowe confirmed this last week when he declared an “end to the transition”, before urging a new narrative be penned.
This view is supported by an increasing agglomeration of evidence.
A welcome bounce in non-mining business investment, record business conditions, an unprecedented boom in job creation - 296,000 new jobs created in the first 10 months of the year, a 40-year record, and the longest run in positive monthly trade balances, also in 40 years.
Certainly, some frustrations still persist, in particular the stubbornness of wage growth that is weighing on family and household incomes, and the dislocation and disruption in the retail sector which, combined, are having an adverse impact on consumer perceptions of the economy.
But the underlying trend is positive.
The IMF last week recognised the “green shoots” that are beginning to emerge on wages as the labour market tightens and spare capacity stripped out of the system and that “conditions [were] in place for a pickup in economic growth to above-trend rates.
”
“The improved picture” the IMF said, “reflects a strong global outlook, recent stronger employment growth, and a stronger contribution from infrastructure investment with positive spillovers to private investment and the rest of the economy.
”
Our economy is strengthening and will continue to strengthen with the right policy settings in place.
As I said in the Budget, so long as we continue to make the right choices to secure the better days ahead.
You know all that.
But what do you really know of the alternative?
Ten years ago I entered parliament; Kevin Rudd became Prime Minister and more than a decade of successful Coalition economic management came to an end.
If I had knocked on your door in the electorate of Cook and told you that if Kevin Rudd and Labor were elected, they would turn a $20 billion surplus into a $27 billion deficit in just one year, before going on to accumulate $240 billion in combined deficits, and would increase our Commonwealth debt by 34 per cent every year.
If I had said that in one year this deficit would hit more than $50 billion or 4.
2 per cent of our economy, arguably the biggest deficit since WWII and spending would keep increasing despite growth in revenues falling.
If I said any of this, I would have been accused of political scaremongering.
I would have been told that Kevin Rudd labelled himself an economic conservative and had urged the reckless spending of the Howard Government to stop.
So what was I going on about?
After all, they may have just seen Julia Gillard and Wayne Swan on the TV having meetings with business people, allaying fears that business wasn’t concerned about a Labor Government.
Then if I said that this spending would include a cash splash of over $50 billion in stimulus payments to welfare recipients and cheques to deceased people and pets; if I said it would be spent on the most expensive sun shades ever built in schools or on household insulation programmes that would set fire to people’s homes, even occasioning in death, or a cash handout for selling your clapped out Datsun 120Y.
If I said 50,000 people would turn up on 800 boats, and that more 1200 would drown at sea.
That 6000 children would go into detention, when there were currently none.
And that this would cost you, the taxpayer, $11.
6 billion.
If I said any of this you would’ve called the police.
You would have said there’s a madman on my doorstep.
Well, as we all know, all of this happened and more.
Labor’s truth in Government is stranger than any fiction I can imagine, but the economic damage under Labor is always very real.
The lunacy, failure and economic mismanagement that was the hallmark of Labor’s last government will be replicated by a new one, especially one led by Bill Shorten.
You are welcome to your criticisms of our Government, and while you may be frustrated at times with our handling of politics, it is also this Government that has been cleaning up the mess, getting things done, and putting the right conditions in place for our economy to grow.
We have kept expenditure growth below two per cent, the lowest of any government in the past fifty years, and one of only two governments in the last fifty years, together with the Howard Government, who have kept their cost curve below their revenue curve and maintained our commitment to the 23.
9 per cent tax-GDP cap, also known as our tax speed limit.
It is the Turnbull Government that cut growth in our working-age welfare to 2.
1 per cent, compared to Labor’s runaway growth of 9.
1 per cent.
In six years, Labor increased the number of welfare recipients by 250,000.
Since we were elected, we have decreased the number of people on income support by 140,000 – down to 15 per cent of the working age population, the lowest proportion in at least 25 years.
It is the Turnbull Government that has maintained our trajectory back to a projected balance in 2020-21 and maintained our AAA credit rating.
It is the Turnbull Government that has reduced the rate of growth in Commonwealth debt by two thirds, to single digits for the first time in a decade.
It is the Turnbull Government that from next year will ensure that the Commonwealth is no longer borrowing money to pay for everyday expenditure on pensions, welfare, Medicare and schools funding.
It is the Turnbull Government that is building Western Sydney Airport and the Inland Rail as part of a $75 billion national economic infrastructure program, and Snowy 2.
0.
They are designed to drive growth and generate jobs.
It is the Turnbull Government who is implementing the largest recapitalisation of our defence forces since WWII, upgrading our strategic defence capability and investing in a new and dynamic advanced manufacturing Australian defence industry.
It is the Turnbull Government that has wrestled with the difficult challenges in our energy sector and has secured guaranteed gas supply for the next two years for industry, better retail deals for household and businesses on their electricity bills, the removal of legal loopholes which enabled network operators to jack up their prices, and a new National Energy Guarantee that carries with it lower prices of around $400 annually, compared to today, for the average household.
It is the Turnbull Government that is opening our banks up to greater competition to give small business in particular better and fairer access to capital, while strengthening the banks’ world class resilience that underpins our economy, and supporting our FinTech sector to be world class.
It is the Turnbull Government that has restored the rule of law to the building and construction industry, in bringing militant unions to heel and making them accountable through our registered organisations legislation and outlawing corrupting payments by businesses to unions.
And it is the Turnbull Government that has secured the passage of almost 180 bills since the last election, in a Parliament which was roundly written off as unworkable at the time.
One of the most important pieces of legislation passed was our small and medium sized business tax cuts, as part of our broader Enterprise Tax Plan that would reduce business tax to 25 per cent.
This would not only support the increased investment needed to spur growth and create jobs, but ensure Australian businesses are not left stranded and uncompetitive in a world embracing lower taxation.
A lot is happening and there is a lot to lose if a Labor Government is given the opportunity to change all this, having long fought us on these positions.
In 2007 the Australian people gave Labor the benefit of the doubt, and paid a heavy price for it.
Just like in 2007, Labor is not a benign option for our economy, and it is important that those who believe in growing our economy do not allow themselves the excuse that we can afford another Labor Government.
Tonight I want to talk about the key reasons why Labor and Bill Shorten’s dark vision would suffocate our economy just as we are entering a new growth phase.
A dark economic vision that values envy and populism over growth and jobs.
This vision foolishly thinks increasing the tax burden on Australian households will actually help the economy.
It sacrifices jobs on the altar of ideology.
Since the Budget I have continued to set out the Turnbull Government’s economic narrative.
It is a message that is unashamedly geared towards economic growth, because an economic policy platform that fails to have growth as its core pursuit or its end game, sets the nation up to fail.
So just in case some people think they can risk their business with Bill Shorten becoming Prime Minister, allow me to provide a gentle and respectful warning.
If Bill Shorten becomes the next Prime Minister, Australian households and businesses will be slapped with a crushing $164 billion tax bill, according to new Treasury modelling I have released this evening.
A $164 billion tax slug over ten years dumped straight on top of an economy that is getting back to its feet and moving towards better days ahead.
These extra taxes will smash through our tax speed limit of 23.
9 per cent for taxes as a share of our economy, that Labor have already said they will abolish and not be bound by.
At the last election this was estimated to rise under Labor to 25.
7 per cent, and it is now closer to 26 per cent.
I asked Treasury to prepare these costings of their specific tax measures based on Labor’s own policy announcements.
The costings are to the same standard that Treasury would apply if asked to do a costing under the Charter of Budget Honesty.
It calculates the true extent of Labor’s catalogue of taxes on housing, investment, wages, small businesses, family businesses, savings and wages.
Firstly, Labor’s Housing Tax – a $20 billion tax on mum and dad investors through Labor’s plan to abolish negative gearing for established homes.
And because they are related..
Labor’s Investment Tax – a $13 billion tax increase in capital gains tax for all assets by 50 per cent, by halving the CGT discount.
Labor is oblivious to the impact the abolition of negative gearing and halving the CGT discount would have on a housing market that is already showing signs of easing in the most important markets of Sydney and Melbourne, and is continuing to struggle in Perth.
Careful and targeted action was required to mitigate the risks of an overheating property market that was impinging on housing affordability, particularly for first home owners.
And that is what the Turnbull Government delivered.
Our regulatory measures to curb lending growth have worked to let out some of the steam in our hotter housing markets, without impacting markets that have struggled for the last few years.
As a result, the growth in investor lending has slowed, house price growth is moderating, and first home buyers are re-entering the market.
The IMF has given this targeted approach a resounding tick of approval.
Labor’s reckless plans would lead the Australian housing market to a hard landing, with the negative impacts flowing directly to the Australian economy.
We need more investment in our economy.
You don’t increase investment by taxing it more.
Labor’s Tax Return Tax – a $1.
5 billion tax courtesy of Labor’s proposal to slap a $3000 cap on the amount individuals can deduct for managing their tax.
Bill Shorten likes to yell about stopping the wealthy from minimising their tax through clever accounting, but it’s just another con.
This change will slug every day Australians who have complicated tax arrangements and those going through the heartache of divorce or redundancy disputes who may require intensive tax advice.
It will also restrict the ability of those who feel they have been unfairly treated by the ATO, from heading to court to argue their case.
If you have a dispute with the tax office, you should get your day in court, and you should be able to access the advice you need to make your case.
Labor’s Higher Income Tax – a $22 billion tax on wages – courtesy of Labor’s plan to reimpose the deficit levy.
Under Labor new taxes are never temporary.
This aspiration-sapping plan would take the top tax bracket to 49.
5 per cent; one of the highest tax rates in the OECD.
This is Bill Shorten reaching into the pockets of Australians and clawing back half of the extra money they earn.
One dollar for them, one dollar for him.
This could result in some of our best minds heading overseas where the tax rates are less burdensome.
Labor has also committed to impose a higher Medicare levy on the 3.
4 million Australians earning over $87,000, but not one cent of this levy will go towards funding our National Disability Insurance Scheme.
So what’s the point?
The Turnbull Government committed to increasing the Medicare Levy by 0.
5 percentage points, to fill the $55.
7 billion black hole left by Labor for this important scheme; rather than leaving it to the variabilities of tax revenue.
Labor remain in negligent denial about this funding gap and believe they left office in 2013 with the NDIS fully funded, perhaps they believe the four years of surpluses, Wayne Swan announced that night.
Another con.
But despite saying they don’t need it, they still want to increase the Medicare Levy, just because they can.
It’s simply a naked tax grab instituted for no other reason than to satiate Labor’s desperate need to raise tax and spend more money.
Labor’s Family Business Tax – a $22 billion tax on family businesses, with Labor planning to impose a 30 per cent tax rate on distributions from discretionary trusts.
Another envy bandwagon tax under the guise of clamping down on the wealthy that has consequences for many families who would be amused at the suggestion they are rolling in cash.
Particularly family businesses in regional areas, where the variables of the weather year-to-year can impact your cash flow and income, not just on farms.
These families use trusts legitimately to spread income between beneficiaries, to assist in flexibly managing their affairs.
These trusts also play a critical role in keeping assets in the family.
Nonetheless, Bill Shorten is coming after you.
Labor’s Savings Tax – $25 billion worth of new taxes on your superannuation savings; lowering the annual non-concessional contributions cap to $75,000; lowering the high income super contribution threshold to $200,000, reversing the introduction of catch-up concessional contributions, and reversing changes to tax deductibility for personal contributions.
This coterie of taxes has one net outcome – punishing Australians who are saving for their retirement.
Their decision to scrap the catch-up contributions targets mothers on maternity leave who will be prevented from contributing extra to their superannuation when they resume work.
It would also hurt those who have spent years out of the work force.
And who can forget the Tradie Tax – Labor’s changes to tax deductibility for the 800,000 who are self-employed, which is less about raising tax revenue and more about protecting Labor’s industry super donors.
And finally, Labor’s Growth Tax, imposing higher Taxes on Business earnings – a $59 billion tax on Australian businesses, courtesy of Labor’s plan to reverse the Turnbull Government’s Enterprise Tax Plan.
There is no question Bill Shorten will not proceed with our full Enterprise Tax Plan for businesses with a turnover of greater than $50 million.
They continue to oppose its implementation in the Parliament as we speak.
This will risk investment and put Australian businesses at a competitive disadvantage to their competitors overseas, and send jobs offshore.
But what they continue to deceive Australians about is reversing the tax cuts we have already legislated for the 3.
2 million businesses with a turnover less than $50 million.
Every time Labor talk about a $65 billion tax cut to business, they commit themselves to hitting small businesses with a giant stick.
Not implementing the balance of the Enterprise Tax Plan for businesses with a turnover of over $50 million, hits those businesses with a $35 billion tax bill.
Labor’s policy at the last election, and included in their election costing, was to only allow tax cuts for companies with a turnover of up to $2 million.
That policy remains unchanged by Labor.
Reversing the legislated tax cuts for firms with turnovers between $2m and $50m will impose a $25 billion tax bill on those businesses – impacting their growth and the jobs and wages that depend on that growth.
3.
3 million Australians work in those businesses.
Labor are relying on this $25 billion to pay for commitments they have already made.
Labor have to fess up, tell Australian small and medium sized businesses that you are going to reverse their tax cuts, tell the Australian people that you can’t afford your promises or tell them that you’re going to increase the debt and deficit even beyond the higher levels you have already confessed to.
Bill Shorten and Chris Bowen should face Australian small business owners and tell them straight: That Labor is going to increase their taxes.
No more fudging, come clean.
There are almost 18,000 small businesses in Bennelong that are waiting for Bill Shorten’s answer before December 15, and if he fails to tell them, then he will confirm once again why Australians cannot and do not trust Bill Shorten, because he’s shifty as.
But speaking of Bennelong, this is not the only risk that Labor presents to voters at this by-election.
Labor arrogantly hopes the people of NSW have forgotten what the NSW Labor party did to their State when they go to the polls on December 15 and ask them to vote for the former Labor Premier that the people of NSW voted out en masse just over six years ago, for Labor’s worst ever election defeat.
On that day they removed the scandal-plagued Keneally-led Labor Government from office; a government that had dragged the NSW economy to the bottom of the pack.
It is a matter of public record that those who sponsored, assisted and were promoted by Kristina Keneally as Premier and beforehand, are now in prison.
But while these are all important issues to consider at the ballot box, there are also the important questions of economic management.
The creation of jobs, the price of electricity, the liveability of cities and towns and the infrastructure that enhances them – this is where the Labor Keneally Government’s abject failure did the most damage to the people of NSW.
Economic growth in NSW lagged other States, the unemployment rate was above the national average and residential building approvals were less than half of where they are now.
Under the Coalition’s economic management in NSW, our State has reclaimed its mantle as the economic powerhouse of the nation.
Growth has increased, 372,000 jobs have been created, unemployment sits at 4.
6 per cent, well under the national rate of 5.
4 per cent.
NSW under the Coalition is now in the midst of the longest construction boom in NSW history, evident by the cranes that dot Sydney’s skyline.
In 2016-17 over $5.
6 billion of work was completed on roads in NSW, while the pipeline of work has ramped up to record levels; more than twice as large as the pipeline inherited from Labor.
And this week the PM and John Alexander announced a $100 million commitment to build a bus interchange in Bennelong to ease congestion.
The Keneally-led Labor Government also left the State’s finances in disarray with $4.
4 billion worth of deficits and $14 billion of net debt forecast.
Six years later, and the State has $7.
9 billion in surpluses forecast and net debt has been erased.
The 2011 Financial Audit Report conducted by the Acting NSW Treasury Secretary, concluded that under Labor there was a “marked deterioration in the State’s financial position’’ which reflected “a lack of fiscal discipline” and “a failure in the application of the Budget process and a failure of financial leadership of the State.
’’
This is what Kristina Keneally and Labor are offering the voters of Bennelong.
Don’t let Labor do to Bennelong what they did last time to NSW and what they did last time to Australia.
Australia cannot afford it.
Once bitten, should be twice shy.
This should be as true for business in Australia, as it is for the people of Bennelong.
The Turnbull Government is getting on with the job and getting the results.
The difference in approaches to economic management with Labor and our record could not be clearer.
Labor have forfeited the right to the benefit of the doubt, whether in Bennelong or nationally.
Labor will put all that business has worked so hard to achieve at risk.
You can see the opportunities ahead.
Labor’s anti-business policies will snuff them out.
The Turnbull Government is making the right choices to secure the better days ahead, based on principles of fairness, security and opportunity.
We seek your ongoing assistance in ensuring that we can continue to do this for our economy, to deliver the jobs, higher wages and services, supports that rely on a growing economy.
There is now an economic consensus in Australia that the “better days ahead” I spoke about in this year’s Budget are materialising.
The evidence supporting the improvement in our economy can give us all confidence, as we put some tough years behind us, and look towards an exciting new growth phase ahead.
This renewed optimism is being supported by the Turnbull Government’s growth agenda, and the improved economic conditions we are seeing across the globe.
Global confidence is back, and is the spirited message being broadcast by governments, central banks, the IMF and economists the world over.
Australia has just recorded the strongest period of job creation in decades, adding 371,500 jobs in the last year.
Our economy has entered its 26th year of consecutive growth, and despite wage growth remaining subdued, households are increasingly confident about their future, with more optimists than pessimists.
The case for confidence is even stronger for business.
Company profits are up 18 per cent over the year, business conditions are the highest in almost a decade, and capital expenditure expectations are above average.
The next challenge will be the pay rise many Australians have been waiting for.
The better days are materialising before our eyes, and we should embrace them.
This message of positive economic momentum is woven through the fabric of five keynote speeches I have given in the last three months.
Each speech is built upon the four foundations of this year’s Budget: stronger growth to deliver more and better paid jobs, guaranteeing the essential services that Australians rely on, putting downward pressure on the cost of living, and ensuring we live within our means.
Holding the line on those core issues, in an economy that is improving every day, will protect Australia’s living standards and lead to higher wages both now, and into the future.
It's business as usual for the government despite some issues in recent days.
Our economy continues to show its mettle, as it shakes off the final days of the prolonged and painful exit from the mining investment boom, and forges a path towards broad-based growth.
Real GDP growth grew by 2 per cent in 2016-17 after being revised up by the ABS on Friday and is expected to rise to 2 ¾ per cent annual growth this financial year.
Businesses are experiencing the best conditions since 2008 and are beginning to ramp up their investments as they spy the blue skies through the clouds that may have obscured their outlook in the past three years.
But the real cause for joy within the Australian economy has been the record jobs growth that shows no sign of abating.
Australia just experienced the strongest annual full time jobs growth on record - with 315,900 full time positions created in the last year and 371,500 in total.
Nearly 20,000 new jobs were created in September alone, the 12th consecutive month of jobs growth.
You have to go back 23 years to find a longer run of growth.
The rate of annual jobs growth is now above 3 per cent, more than 15 times faster than in 2013 when we were elected.
And since that moment in time, 825,000 jobs have been created, almost two thirds of which have been secured in the past two years.
As well as growing the economy by encouraging investment, building infrastructure and giving businesses the incentive to expand and create jobs, a lot of our attention this year has focused on the financial sector.
Australians are heavily reliant upon our financial services sector.
It forms a crucial and unavoidable part of their daily lives.
These services enable some of our most important decisions in life - borrowing for that first home, saving for retirement, building a portfolio of wealth.
More than $2.
7 trillion is entrusted to the sector by 13 million Australians, underlining its importance to not only customers, but the stability of the national economy.
Improving the quality of the financial system, ensuring it is providing stability to the sector and the wider economy as well as serving its customers well, is our constant remit.
The Turnbull Government's agenda is governed by three key perspectives.
Ensuring our financial system is unquestionably strong to protect against the storms that may arise;
Ensuring our financial system is unquestionably accountable; to protect against rogue operators and rash decisions that undermine the sector and hurt the customer, and finally;
Ensuring our financial system is unquestionably competitive.
You exist because of the customer.
When they are not front and centre, you've lost your compass.
Together this creates a system that is fair.
Today I'm pleased to outline how the Turnbull Government is taking action now, and ensure these three key perspectives are driving our agenda.
A key reason Australia was able to withstand the body blows thrown from the GFC was the resilience and prudency of our banking system.
This was the message I told global bank executives and business leaders in New York earlier this month.
We didn't get bashed around by the GFC like they did, and their counterparts across the Atlantic did.
Our economy continued to grow while others ground to a halt, and our banks weathered the storm better than most.
Since the GFC, Australian banks have increased their capital ratios and now have a significant buffer above APRA's current minimum regulatory requirements.
The total capital ratio of the Australian banking system has risen by 3.
6 percentage points since the start of 2008 to be 14.
2 per cent as at June 2017.
In July, APRA announced it would raise the minimum capital requirements for our banks to make them more resilient and less susceptible to shocks.
These higher requirements will be met by 1 January 2020.
This increased minimum capital requirement will place Australian banks capital ratios in the top tier of internationally active banks, allowing them to enjoy continued access to international finance at competitive prices.
Importantly, the four major banks and Macquarie Bank have indicated they are well placed to meet the higher capital standards.
These new requirements place us at the head of the pack in providing financial stability in a post-GFC world.
As nations continue to negotiate the finalisation of Basel III and are close to reaching a consensus, our corporate regulator beat them to the punch with the necessary calibration to reach the "unquestionably" strong standards.
APRA is confident that even when Basel III is finalised, it will be able to comfortably accommodate the reforms within its framework without requiring extra capital requirements from our banks.
Of course, the Turnbull Government wholeheartedly supports APRA's efforts to ensure the Australian financial system is resilient.
That's why we are building on our legacy of resilience by enhancing APRA's crisis management powers.
As recommended by the Financial System Inquiry, we are giving APRA additional ability to prepare for, and manage, a financial crisis.
In any sort of crisis you want the response to be clear and orderly.
Already APRA works comprehensively with banks and insurers to ensure they are prepared for a financial crisis.
But the legislative framework does not give APRA clear powers to make prudential standards for resolution.
Well, we are plugging this gap.
APRA will also have expanded powers when it steps in and takes control of a failing bank or insurer, through a new crisis management toolkit.
It has proven invaluable in bringing an orderly resolution to distressed financial companies.
But has previously hit roadblocks when the company in trouble is part of a complex financial group.
Group entities will often house critical services, like staff or infrastructure.
To ensure effective resolution, APRA needs to be able to either direct or take control of all of these necessary group entities; which our legislation now provides.
We're also doing the heavy lifting to bridge the regulatory gaps around the lending activities of non-banks.
APRA has powers to address the financial stability risks and reinforce sound residential mortgage lending practices by Authorised Deposit-taking Institutions, or ADIs.
But it has no ability to manage material financial stability risks that might arise from non-ADI lenders.
International experience shows this presents a risk, so we have provided APRA with a new reserve power over the lending activities of non-banks.
It will be able to adjust the rules when it sees activities from non-bank lenders that contribute to instability within the Australian financial system.
We envisage this is a last resort power, but a critical tool for APRA were it become necessary to step in.
APRA will also have "eyes on the ground" with its ability to collect data from the non-bank lender sector.
Such access will allow it to react quickly when unfortunate trends arise.
This is largely a future-proofing measure.
We want the non-banking lending sector to be strong, vibrant and resilient, because it is vital source of competition in a market concentrated around five dominant players.
The customer needs them to thrive, which is why I have introduced legislation to lift the prohibition on the use of the word 'bank'.
Currently only ADIs with more than $50 million in capital can call themselves a bank.
There are approximately 58 ADIs in Australia that will then be entitled to call themselves a bank, boosting their market appeal and their ability to secure cheaper funds.
The benefits to the customer are simple - cheaper loans.
But it is not just about the current players in the market.
This change knocks down a significant barrier for new entrants - nimble and innovative lenders that care less about bricks and mortar branches and more about giving customers a better deal.
When UK authorities similarly removed the prohibition on the term 'bank', it led to a flood of new online lenders into the market, forcing the major banks to slash their interest rates and product pricing.
Almost 60 new banks have piled into the UK market since regulatory changes in 2013, including digital banks like Monzo, Tandem and Starling - banks that sell themselves as "mobile first''.
The future of our banking sector, under this similarly reduced licensing burden, is rather exciting.
As well as having a strong, stable and resilient banking system, it must be unquestionably accountable.
Australians are fair-minded and practical.
They know that businesses need to make a dollar.
They know that profit drives competition and innovation and supports jobs.
But profit should not come at the expense of the Australian people or the integrity of the financial system.
In introducing our Banking Executive Accountability Regime, we have sought to address any concerns and take action now.
And in doing so, ensuring the leadership of our banks are held to account for the decisions that can negatively impact their customers, or hurt the reputation of their bank.
This practical regime can be summed up in three words:
Transparency.
Responsibility.
Consequences.
To deliver transparency, the regime will require banks to provide accountability statements and governance maps.
This will show exactly who is accountable for what within the senior ranks of the bank, meaning that when something goes wrong, banks will not be able to shift the blame or claim that no one executive was responsible.
Bank executives and senior leaders will also have to uphold new standards of honesty, integrity, due skill, care and diligence — standards the community expects.
And they and their banks will have to wear the consequences of behaviour that contradicts those standards.
For banks that breach their obligations, we're introducing civil penalties of up to $210 million - a strong deterrence for poor behaviour.
But this goes beyond banks being forced to write big cheques to absolve their sins.
Executives and directors in breach of their obligations face disqualification from the banking industry and they may be stripped of their bonuses.
This is legislation with teeth.
And such is necessary to restore the public's faith in the leadership of our banks and the way they go about their business.
It is not about bashing the banks.
In fact, the formation of this legislation has been done in a very consultative manner with the banks and their CEOs.
They have been extensively involved in the process.
We have also listened to their concerns around procedural fairness and have addressed them.
Executives and directors wishing to challenge their disqualification will have access to both judicial review by the courts and merits review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.
Importantly, these are the same appeal rights afforded to banned financial planners.
Above all, we've designed the regime to improve behaviour within the banking sector.
We will not measure success in enforcement actions alone — the ultimate goal is to end inappropriate behaviour.
The onus is on the banks to ensure the regime drives improvements in culture and behaviour rather than becoming a compliance exercise or an enforcement regime.
Within the realm of financial advice, we are putting in the necessary guard rails to improve the professional, ethical and education standards of advisers.
The current requirements allowed some advisers to become 'qualified' to provide financial advice to retail customers after only four days of training.
This doesn't instill any confidence in the system — especially when you consider someone's life savings are on the line.
Furthermore, it doesn't instill confidence if you are a highly qualified financial adviser and you see shonks trashing your collective reputation.
So we are lifting the standard.
From 1 January 2019, new financial advisers will require a degree while existing advisers will have until 1 January 2024 to meet a standard equivalent.
Advisers will be required to sit an exam to test their practical and ethical knowledge; there will be uniform code of ethics to follow; and, from 2019, all new advisers will have to complete a professional year under the supervision of an experienced adviser.
We are fortunate to have Catherine Walter AM chairing the new Financial Adviser Standards and Ethics Authority and Dr Deen Sanders OAM as the inaugural CEO.
The authority will set the education, training and ethical standards that financial advisers will need to follow, and will be responsible for developing the industry exam.
Of course, all of this targeted action has a distinct face behind it.
The customer.
An unquestionably fair financial sector must be unquestionably competitive.
This is why we are currently setting up the Australian Financial Complaints Authority — a one-stop shop for external dispute resolution for financial services.
This significant move was made with consumers and small businesses front of mind, providing them access to a free, fast, fair and binding dispute resolution service.
We appreciate that the number of disputes remain small compared to the overall size of the system, however, the impact of financial disputes on consumers and small businesses can be very stressful.
Many Australians have been left unsatisfied after going into battle with their bank to rectify a wrong.
The time and cost has just not been worth it.
Therefore, it's imperative that Australians are able to resolve their financial complaints in a timely and proper way.
There will no longer be uncertainty over where to turn or confusion about which body has the ambit to hear a particular dispute.
The authority will replace the current three-prong system involving the Financial Ombudsman Service, the Credit and Investments Ombudsman, and the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
This means more consumers and small businesses can have their case heard, and receive fair compensation if they have wrongfully suffered a loss.
We are fortunate to have former Reserve Bank of Australia Assistant Governor, Dr Malcolm Edey, leading the transition and ushering in the new authority.
Dr Edey brings extensive knowledge, experience and leadership in making sure the authority is up and running by 1 July 2018.
Our extensive work on safeguarding consumers from predatory credit card lending has also been warmly received by the public.
We are tightening up how credit card providers are required to determine a consumer's ability to repay a credit limit.
Keeping a tight rein on your credit card is a routine struggle for many Australians.
Particularly when you consider the average balance is sitting around $4700.
People can easily get themselves in trouble, especially when financial hardship knocks on their door or when an unexpected setback in life impacts the earning capacity of a household.
Here I have made four changes to make the system fair.
Firstly, I will require credit card affordability assessments be done on a customer's ability to repay the full credit limit within a reasonable period.
Currently, those assessments are only conducted on the customer's ability to pay the minimum repayment amount.
Secondly, I will be prohibiting unsolicited offers of credit card limit increases.
No more.
Thirdly, I will also be simplifying how your interest is calculated.
Those Australians that understand how credit card interest is calculated are probably all in this room.
Fourth, I will make it easier for customers to cancel their card or reduce their credit limit online.
And we are also forging ahead of our open banking regime in Australia that will give customers ownership of their financial data and reduce the costs of banking products.
This will empower customers to seek out products better suited to their needs - saving them money and allowing them to better achieve their financial goals.
It will also create further opportunities for innovative business models, helping challenger banks driver greater competition and contributing to overall productivity.
I appointed Scott Farrell to lead the Open Banking Independent Review.
Mr Farrell is a partner at King & Mallesons and has over 20 years' experience in financial systems law.
He knows the FinTech sector and is a member of my FinTech Advisory Group.
I look forward to receiving his draft recommendations.
We're determined to make things easier and fairer for the consumer.
And that, at the end of the day, will be of benefit for the financial sector.
One of the areas that I'm particularly passionate about is FinTech.
And it's not because I like hanging out with people who wear T-shirts, have beards and look a lot like baristas.
It's because they are on the cusp of what is hopefully one of the biggest changes to our banking and financial system in generations.
The technology is exciting.
It can be distracting, it can sometimes over promise and under deliver.
But at the same time it's hard not to appreciate the potential.
And like any new sector where innovation arrives, there are misfires, there are misstarts.
But it's important that we don't lose sight of the benefits of FinTech in revolutionising how it will allow the customer to engage like never before.
First, it was seen as a disrupter of the big banks, and I think we're past that.
What we're now seeing is a collaboration between the FinTech innovators and the financial and banking system.
There is an exchange.
I think we're also past the part of the cycle where the purpose of starting a FinTech company is to be bought up by a bank, and walk away with a cheque.
When you've got the ASX looking to establish the first blockchain settlement exchange in the world, that's a pretty exciting thing for Australia.
We'll have a new online real time payment platform active and operational by next January.
When you consider that we will have in place the world's most forward leaning regulatory sandbox for FinTech development, the pieces of the puzzle are coming together for the financial services revolution in this country.
And the big winner will be the customer.
We'll see greater security and resilience in the system.
Technology affords that as well.
Whichever way you look, you're removing what have been institutional, bureaucratic, impediments between the customer and the service provider.
Anywhere we've seen that in history, we've seen massive changes.
So that our goal, a financial system that is unquestionably strong, accountable and competitive, will also be a more fair system for the customers it is intended to serve.
We are putting customers at the apex of the financial system where they belong.
We are making sure they benefit from competition, stability and accountability.
And importantly, we are not wasting any time; we are getting on with it and taking action now.
It is already happening.
And the customer, and the financial sector, are both better for it.
There is no doubt the United States has been a powerful force in shaping the economic future of a capital-hungry Australia; where international investment has fuelled our ambition and enables us to reach our potential.
From the barrels of rum that sailed into Sydney Harbour aboard the aptly-named trading ship Hope in 1793, our total two-way trade is now worth more than $63 billion, while our total investment is now worth more than $1.
47 trillion.
The US is both Australia's largest single investor, and the largest destination for Australian investment.
What's more, the amount of investment has grown 'sizably' since the financial crisis — at over A$860 billion, total US investment in Australia has increased three-fold since 2002.
At around A$195 billion, the stock of US direct investment in Australia is more than that of any other country.
This investment has created 330,000 high paying jobs — with an average salary of more than A$115,000.
On the flip-side, total Australian investment in the US was valued at $617 billion in 2016 — a figure which has doubled since 2005.
Like anywhere else, Australia has not been immune from the battering forces that have hit economies around the globe over the past decade.
What began as the Global Financial Crisis, or Great Recession as it is known here in the US, has become a long running Global Economic Funk of low inflation, low rates and low growth.
This has been a hard economy to find yield and boost earnings.
In a tough global environment, Australia has been an economic stand out.
Despite the challenges we have all faced, the Australian economy has now chalked up a record 26 years of uninterrupted growth, backing the judgement of global capital, especially here in the US, that we have been and remain a very sound place to invest.
Australia has the second highest GDP per capita of the G20.
Second only to the US.
Our success is grounded in being an open trading economy, with a strong and resilient banking system, that has always sought to maximise our opportunities.
Our traditional strengths in resources and agriculture continue to be embraced while actively diversifying our economic base by transitioning our manufacturing industries and rapidly expanding our services sector that now makes up around 60 per cent of our economy.
The Australian economy grew by 0.
8 per cent in the June quarter, taking our annual growth to 1.
9 per cent and we expect real GDP growth to track up to 2 ¾ per cent over the rest of the financial year before returning to trend growth of 3 per cent in 2018-19.
Our confidence in the better days we see ahead for Australia is not only driven by the improved global outlook, but the flow of new domestic data, including the strongest period of job creation we have seen in decades.
We have now had 11 consecutive months of jobs being created.
There has not been a longer run of jobs growth in 23 years!
In the past six months, we saw the strongest gain in jobs since the Sydney Olympics; more than 250,000 Australians taking a risk and being rewarded with a job.
And the vast bulk of these jobs have been full-time positions.
This growth in employment is expected to continue, with job advertisement and surveys of expected employment all pointing to further growth.
With this sustained pickup in employment conditions, it is no wonder that businesses are reporting the best conditions they have seen in almost a decade.
This was confirmed again this week as being 'rock solid' in the NAB monthly survey of conditions, that also saw business confidence tick up.
We are also seeing some encouraging signs in business investment, with new private business investment increasing in each of the past three quarters, following 12 consecutive quarters of decline.
Our recent economic results are particularly pleasing, given what the Australian economy has endured in recent years.
The Global Financial Crisis did not sideswipe us like it did here in the US or across Europe, thanks to the strength and resilience of our financial system that did not fail, due to the prudence of earlier reforms by the Howard Government.
Our greater challenge has been the prolonged and somewhat painful exit from a once-in-a-century mining boom that both helped our country prosper and left our economy with a hangover that hasn't quit.
Commodity prices began to soar around 2004 on the back of a demand shock driven by the expansion of China.
Resource companies received a substantial income boost which flowed through to the wider economy.
Our exchange rate appreciated beyond parity with the US, giving consumers significant purchasing power.
Mining investment inevitably followed the soaring commodity prices, reaching a peak of nine per cent of GDP, when there was little spare capacity in the economy and unemployment was low.
Naturally, wages and incomes began to grow at a rapid pace.
This sudden orientation to mining split our economy in two, as labour and investment were diverted to mining, and away from other sectors of the economy, such as manufacturing, which were also weighed down by high exchange rates making them less competitive and the higher wages needed to attract labour.
But this plane was always going to land.
Following the peak of the commodity price boom in 2011, we saw a 30 per cent reduction in our terms of trade, as commodity prices retreated rapidly.
Mining investment also began to dry up and the income boost that the country had been receiving went into reverse.
Over the four years following the peak of the mining investment boom, private non-mining, non-financial profits had been declining at an average rate of 1.
9 per cent per year between September 2012 and September 2016.
That drag has been a significant anchor on the Australian economy, handicapping our gains for half a decade.
From its peak, mining investment more than halved from 9 per cent to under 4 per cent of GDP and on average knocked almost a full percentage off real economic growth per annum.
The impact has also been felt by households courtesy of subdued wage growth.
At the start of the mining boom, our measure of real consumer wage (defined as wages relative to the prices consumers pay for goods) moved sharply away from the producer wage (which is wages relative to the prices firms receive for their output) which continued to grow in line with productivity.
And it stayed away, with the gap increasing over the coming years.
Producer and consumer wages historically track together.
However, since the peak of the boom, the consumer wage has spent five years moving sideways, with the producer wage and productivity steadily playing catch up.
As the adjustment from the end of the mining investment boom continues and spare capacity in the labour market is absorbed, we can expect upward pressure on wages to resume, in line with productivity growth and investment.
In the meantime, households continue to be frustrated with static incomes.
This frustration is exacerbated by the memory that it didn't used to be that way too long ago, during a time that, in hindsight, was more the exception than the rule.
So as you can see, we have been in a holding pattern on wages and investment that has weighed down any economic momentum we have been able to achieve.
Only now has the vast majority of that investment boom washed out of the system and the drag on our economy is almost complete.
This is most recently evidenced by the welcome pickup in non-mining investment in the last few quarters, and surveys of capital expenditure intentions suggesting growth of around 5 per cent this financial year.
But despite a brighter picture emerging within our economy, and a renewed sense of optimism within the global economy, complacency remains our enemy.
We cannot afford to rest on our laurels; to sit back and wait for growth to magically fall from the sky, and the Turnbull Government in Australia is not.
The Australian Government has been unashamedly prioritising growth strategies that we know will boost our economy, deliver a well-earned pay rise to our workers, and lift our living standards.
To grow our economy, just like in the US, we must have a competitive tax system that encourages our businesses to expand, embrace new opportunities and innovate.
Across the globe, the principle of cutting business taxes to drive growth and investment is the emerging economic consensus.
Those failing to act and reduce the burden on businesses, risk becoming isolated and uncompetitive in an increasingly low-tax global marketplace.
In its World Economic Outlook released this week, the IMF makes this point crystal clear.
In modelling 15 percentage point reductions in corporate tax rates in the US, Germany and France, the IMF found the resulting impact of greater investment would have "large benefits for the reforming countries''.
For those countries refusing to jump onboard tax reform, the IMF warns of "significant negative spillovers on activity and fiscal positions".
The Australian Government gets this, and has already legislated progressive tax cuts for businesses with a turnover less than $50 million, taking their tax rates down from 30 per cent to 25 per cent over a 10-year period.
And we are doubling down on our Enterprise Tax Plan, seeking to extend those significant tax cuts to all businesses.
The Australian Treasury estimates that cutting our corporate tax rates from 30 per cent to 25 per cent would generate a sustained lift in GDP of just over one per cent.
And we are investing in a nation-building infrastructure pipeline that will boost productivity across our states and regions.
In this year's Federal Budget, I announced a ten-year $75 billion infrastructure program.
The plan is unprecedented in scale, benefits every State and is set to deliver a productivity boost across the country that will further bolster our thriving jobs market.
The centrepieces of our near-term plans are the $5.
3 billion Western Sydney Airport and an $8.
4 billion Melbourne to Brisbane Inland Rail
Our commitment to infrastructure also spans to energy, evident in our game-changing Snowy 2.
0 pumped hydro storage project which will have enough capacity to provide 350,000 MW/h of electricity for a week, enough to meet peak demand continuously for 500,000 homes.
This will be the biggest pumped hydro scheme in the Southern Hemisphere.
The results of our investment are already evident.
Public investment in our national accounts approached nine percent growth in the June Quarter and there is more to come.
The same is true for defence investment.
The Turnbull Government has embarked on Australia's largest recapitalisation of our defence forces since World War II.
We are returning defence spending to two per cent of GDP by 2020-21, three years ahead of schedule.
As a member of Australia's National Security Committee of Cabinet I know how important this commitment is to our allies, especially here in the US, as we continue to stand together to protect the freedoms and values we hold in unison.
But it is also important to our economic cooperation in defence industries.
For example, Australia sits on both sides of the table of the Joint Strike Fighter procurement, as purchaser and as part of the supply chain.
And our national security cooperation is not limited to traditional defence projects - domestic security, cyber security, border protection and related projects are consuming larger parts of our budgets.
In my last two budgets alone I have committed $2.
7 billion to additional domestic security initiatives.
Australian defence and security industries are up to this task and want to work with the best, which means expanding our commercial partnerships here in the US.
To protect our better days ahead, we have also been pre-emptive and forward leaning in addressing the risks we have identified for our economy.
I want to discuss three such risks today.
Firstly, Australia's household debt remains high, with around eighty per cent of Australia's $2.
1 trillion household debt tied up in mortgages.
This is a real risk, if not properly managed, and we get it.
Australian households are now the fourth most indebted in the OECD as a share of disposable income – behind Denmark, the Netherlands and Norway.
At 122 per cent of GDP, our household debt is roughly two-thirds higher than the average ratio in advanced economies.
But these figures must be understood in the context of the factors that mitigate these risks.
Firstly, on average, Australian households have five times assets coverage over the value of their debts.
Total household wealth last quarter reached a record $9.
8 trillion, or almost $400,000 per person, with the value of their assets being predominantly in housing.
While Australia's housing markets, especially in our largest cities, have experienced strong growth over the past decade this, of itself, is not evidence of an underlying weakness in housing asset values nor that a hard landing for our housing markets is ahead.
Australian housing values, while high, are still real.
Safe as houses still broadly means something in Australia.
The rise in housing values has been driven principally by genuine economic forces of supply and demand, where mortgages are subject to full recourse finance, supported by a strong, stable and resilient banking system and world's best practice credit standards.
Low or no doc loans that crippled US housing markets are a rarity in Australia.
More recently, housing supply has been tracking ahead of population growth, where it is beginning to pull on the reins on house prices as it makes ground on years of undersupply.
The two occasions when we have seen considerable price pressures in homes in the last decade have both coincided with periods when the construction of new homes simply wasn't keeping up with population growth.
In the last four years, supply has moved ahead of population to now build the strongest cumulative growth in stock in 25 years.
This increase in stock is now working its way through the backlog, and there remains a strong pipeline going forward.
In this year's Budget I announced additional measures to ensure supply keeps up with demand in the future, and am now working with our provincial Governments to improve the responsiveness and forward planning of the zoning and regulatory approvals system.
This includes providing tax incentives for affordable housing investment, through managed investment trusts, that would be of real interest to US pension funds, providing a fifty percent withholding tax reduction from 30 per cent to 15 per cent for such investments, including development projects.
Where the supply demand imbalance has been exacerbated by investors seeking to capitalise on rising prices, we have taken action through our prudential regulator, APRA, to constrain access to credit.
This action has included restricting credit growth for investors to 10 per cent for our bank lenders and the proportion of new interest only loans to 30 per cent of total new residential property loans.
The combination of interest only loans in a low rate environment escalates the risk that homeowners will bid up price to secure a property, rather than restrict their exposure.
The regulator's actions have been targeted to address this risk.
They have also had the effect of increasing the rate spread between principal & interest and interest only loans.
Currently, for the major banks, rates for owner occupier principal & interest loans are around 100bps lower than for investor interest only loans.
These measures have had the effect of releasing investor fuelled steam from the market, encouraging mortgage holders to convert to principal and interest loans and pay down debt and create more room for owner occupiers, including first home owners to get back into the market.
Further measures to lift lending standards include stricter guidance on loans with LVRs at or above 80 per cent and new applicant repayment capacity assessed on rates around 200 bps higher than offer.
Since setting a cap on interest-only loans, the growth of investor lending has continued to moderate, growing at 0.
4 per cent in August - the equal slowest result in the past 17 months.
And our banks have rapidly approached the 30 per cent cap on new interest-only loans, down from a peak of 46 per cent.
As observed by Moody's in their credit report last month, when they once again maintained Australia's AAA credit rating, APRA's "proactive prudential policies bolster the resilience of the banking sector" and mitigate the risks of high household debt.
And the proof, as always, is in the pudding.
Capital city house prices only rose 0.
3 per cent in September to be 8.
5 per cent higher through the year.
Sydney prices declined 0.
1 per cent in the month, the first monthly decline in prices in 17 months.
APRA's measures, which have the full support of the government, are working to smooth the landing in our housing markets.
When you take together the unique characteristics of Australia's housing market, and the actions of our regulators; making comparisons of rising house prices in Australia with the housing investment bubbles we saw in the northern hemisphere are misinformed.
But there other factors that are also assisting Australia to manage our higher levels of household debt.
Households have taken advantage of the low interest rate environment to get ahead on their mortgage, and create a buffer.
Mortgage holders in Australia have the equivalent of over 2 ½ years of mortgage payments in offset accounts.
And for the one third of households who do not have a buffer - these include those who have just started their loan, those on interest-only loans who now face a strong price incentive to convert to principal and interest and pay down debt, or those on a fixed interest loan who often face a penalty for early repayment.
And finally, our debt concentration is also in higher income households, with the top two quintiles holding around 60 per cent of Australia's mortgage debt.
So managing household debt is a real issue.
We keep a close watch on it as you can see, but the factors I have outlined hopefully put this in an informed context.
Any discussion of the Australian economy will almost always turn to a discussion about China, our largest trading partner and a key source of growth for our economy.
The Asian giant's rapid urbanisation has had a profound effect on the Australian economy.
Our iron ore and coal has fueled the Chinese steel industry that has been the linchpin for China's development, allowing its sprawling cities to embrace 500 million rural residents in the last three decades.
But the risks to the upside that have borne so much fruit for the Australian economy, can be just as sharp on the downside.
Particularly as our largest trading partner undergoes necessary structural reform, as it seeks to wean itself off investment-led growth and boost private consumption, while reining in debt.
The IMF estimates that augmented government debt in China is likely to rise to 91.
5 per cent of GDP in 2022, while the broader measure of public and private debt is projected to increase to 296.
7 per cent of GDP in the same year.
This high level of credit has intensified the risk in China's financial system, particularly amongst lower-tier banks and in the 'shadow banking' sector where the size and quality of debt remains more opaque.
The Chinese central bank estimates that banks' off-balance assets are around 110 per cent of their total balance sheet assets.
With the Chinese Government steadfastly committed to its growth target of 6.
5 per cent - which it will likely exceed this year, with the economy growing at 6.
9 per cent in the first half of this year - there is concern that there will be sharper increases in debt.
So as you can appreciate, the path of reform is never a smooth one.
Pleasingly, these risks are something the Chinese Government has acknowledged and is attempting to contain, as it seeks to provide stability to the regional economy.
Last month I was in Beijing to lead Australia's strategic economic dialogue with China.
In our discussions there was a very candid assessment of China's challenges.
Creating 13-15 million jobs a year to prevent unemployment from rising is no easy task.
China generates more jobs in just over week than we do in a year.
In these discussions China openly discussed their credit management challenge as well as the need to make their SOE sector 'more fit than fat'.
They also highlighted the need to ensure their tax system encouraged investment.
China has steadily begun tightening macro-prudential and regulatory measures, and has committed to increasing its analysis of capital markets, and the asset quality within its banks.
Nonetheless, it still has a few tricks up its sleeve, including its domestic saving rate of 45 per cent, its adequate levels of foreign exchange reserves and the fact the authorities have overall control of the system.
But while Chinese authorities have further significant tools to manage risk, they will need to find the balance between stability and growth-enhancing reforms that generate productivity.
Given this perennial risk to our economy of a slowing China, the Australian Government has actively sought to expand and diversify our trade relationships, including acquiring new partners and broadening relationships with existing partners.
An empowered Chinese middle class are presenting us with plenty of opportunities to diversify our trade, going beyond the iron ore and coal shipments that have long been the bedrock.
We are well placed to deliver financial, education, health and aged care services to meet the increasing demands of a changing and ageing Chinese society.
Those new trade opportunities also build upon the strength we are seeing in our agricultural exports, with wool exports to China valued at $2.
4 billion in 2016-17, up 20 per cent from the previous year.
While there is a whiff of protectionism in the air given the current political upheaval across the globe, Australia has done the opposite in an attempt to open up new trade routes.
That means new free trade agreements with Japan, Korea and Peru, and the potential of a FTA with Indonesia - our closest neighbour - that each present lucrative opportunities.
For instance, the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation predicts a 70 per cent increase in food production will be required by 2050 to meet global demands.
That's an extra 1 billion tonnes of grain and an extra 200 million tonnes of meat.
The real value of food consumption alone in Indonesia will increase four fold by 2050.
These opportunities are right on our doorstep.
Which brings me to our third and final area of risk management, ensuring as a Government we live within our means and that our banking system is unquestionably strong.
The key reason Australia was able to withstand the body blows thrown from the GFC was because of the prudent budget management of my predecessor Peter Costello, who by the time he left office in 2007 was running budget surpluses in excess of $19 billion.
Six years later when we returned to Government we inherited from the now opposition party $240 billion in accumulated deficits and a generation of debt.
Having implemented more than $100 billion of budget repair measures, and reduced average real growth in government expenditure to below 2 per cent, which is the lowest of any Australian government in 50 years, we are on track to return the budget to balance in 2020-21.
Similarly we have reduced the growth in debt by two thirds and for the first time in almost a decade from the first of July next year we will not be borrowing to meet recurrent expenditures.
What we are achieving is a responsible path back to budget balance, not a mad scramble of austerity that would put economic growth at risk.
You don't want the medicine to kill the patient.
This is a pathway the OECD recognised as "appropriate", and the IMF affirmed as "appropriately prudent''.
This fiscal discipline led to all three major ratings agencies maintaining their AAA credit rating for Australia - one of only ten countries rated AAA by all three major rating agencies.
It was also critical for us to build buffers into our financial system to ensure our banking sector remained unquestionably strong.
In July, our regulator APRA announced they would raise the minimum capital requirements for our major banks by 150 basis points to ensure they build a bigger buffer and are less susceptible to shock.
As well as fiscal discipline, we are holding our banks to a higher standard of accountability and opening the gates to competition in a sector dominated by four main players.
Top of my agenda when I return home will be introducing the Banking Executive Accountability Regime which will make banks and their senior management accountable for their actions to their customers.
This will further reduce risk in the sector and ensure the customer is placed at the centre of their operations, where they belong.
This is in addition to the one-stop shop we will set up to allow customers to resolve disputes and achieve outcomes with their banks without paying an army of lawyers.
We are also removing the prohibition on the use of the word 'bank' by ADIs with less than $50 million in capital, in a bid to bring new, innovative entrants to the market.
And we are moving at pace to establish an Open Banking regime in Australia to transform the way Australians interact with the banking system.
So these are the right choices we are making in Australia, as a Government, as a nation, to create our opportunities, appreciate the risks we face, and put in place the prudent buffers we need to protect our economy and realise the better days we know are ahead.
We look forward to continuing to work with our friends and partners in the US as we continue down this road and write the next chapter into Australia's remarkable economic growth story.
We are coming into Christmas, and one of my favourite Christmas movies of the year, my family and I watch it together most years, is Love Actually.
You all know the scene when the people are coming out, and that is one of those wonderful places where people gather together at an airport.
Airports are all about people, they’re actually not about planes, they’re not about infrastructure, they are about people and they are about people moving between cities and having as good as experience as they possibly can.
As I have just toured around this new terminal I think that has been very much what has been in the minds and the designs that has produced this tremendous facility.
It is all about people.
That wonderful new gathering area with the restaurants and the new ways of people waiting for flights and moving on to flights and being able to spend time together when they are perhaps saying goodbye as they go off on a holiday or they go away on business and then they come back and are greeted.
That is very much what this building is all about.
We are in the transition of our economy from the investment phase of the mining boom into this new diversified economy.
The services sector and transport and tourism and all of these sorts of things, travel, are key parts of that transition.
That is no more true than here in Victoria and in this city in particular, here in Melbourne.
We have seen strong figures coming out of Victoria and particularly out of Melbourne in recent times as our economy transitions.
Infrastructure such as this, but more important than that the vision and the management and the dedication whether it is of Melbourne Airport, or Jetstar, or of Tiger or the many other airlines and businesses which is represented here in this terminal.
I think that is what the growth will be based on.
This week the Prime Minister and Christopher Pyne launched our Innovation Statement.
That Innovation Statement of course focusses on new enterprises and focuses on new technology.
What we see in this building here is innovation because it is improving the customer experience.
So, I look forward, perhaps, maybe they will shoot a movie here one day – Love Actually 2.
This is the sort of, exact type of terminal facility I am sure they would want to use because it is very much a people’s airport and very much focusses on the customer experience.
As Treasurer, I am also very pleased because the economic impact of what is happening here is absolutely tremendous with some 14,300 jobs directly involved.
Everything from transport to retail and post another 43,000 are attributable here to the Melbourne Airport.
Some $1.
5 billion adding to the gross state product of Victoria and these figures will only grow.
I came into politics out of the tourism industry and I know that the growth that is there and the growth in the tourism sector is critically important to this transitioning economy.
Whether it is our international tourism or it is our domestic tourism and domestic tourism in particular has always been the bread and butter and the lion’s share of our tourism industry in this country.
Facilities such as this, and the investments that are behind facilities such as this, are key to the jobs that are created from these wonderful projects.
Today, we look forward to growing travel, increasing numbers of passengers, the shops upstairs brimming over with customers and that is all going to do one thing and that is going to be make Melbourne a stronger economy, Victoria a stronger economy and Australia a stronger national economy because of investment such as this.
I want to congratulate everyone at Melbourne Airport and the investors in particular and the team that has brought this all together.
It is not a tin shed anymore, this is a world class facility – this is a first class facility and one that I think will be adding greatly to the offering that Melbourne Airport has to provide to customers all around the country.
I wish you all the very best with it.
I am very pleased to be able to be here to open it with the team.
Lyell, I think I will ask you now, if you want to come and join me, we might do the official honours and I congratulate you and all the team and all who pass through her, all who fly from her and all who fly to her.
This Government knows that it's important for us to have a conversation about superannuation and about the principles that will guide further policy.
ASFA understands this better than most.
So, today, let me talk a little bit more about the Government's approach to superannuation reform - where we have come from, where we are now; and where we are going.
Firstly, I want to go back to what super was set up to achieve.
The objectives of super when devised by Paul Keating and John Dawkins were varied but in essence, they can be distilled into three key aims.
The first was to promote better standards of living in retirement by supplementing or replacing the age pension.
For instance, those who have small balances when they retire can use it to pay down a mortgage to ensure that they can live comfortably on the pension.
The second was to curb the rising cost of the Age Pension.
In 2013-14 around 70 per cent of people of Age Pension age were receiving the Age Pension, and of these, 60 per cent received the full-rate pension.
However, as Australia's superannuation system matures, many will retire with larger superannuation balances.
As a result, the proportion of full-rate pensioners relative to part-rate pensioners is expected to decrease but the overall proportion of retirees receiving some amount of Age Pension is not projected to decline.
And finally, it was also about improving the national savings pool.
On this last point, I think it is fair to say that the objective has been achieved.
Superannuation assets in this country now total about two trillion dollars.
[1] This highlights that the system has grown and matured significantly.
Of course, there is still some maturation to come as more and more Australians contribute to superannuation from day one of their working life, but in terms of achieving a national savings pool, this aim has well and truly been met.
In relation to the first two objectives - these can now be merged by stating our objective on enabling Australians to achieve a better standard of living and independence in their retirement.
This brings me to my next point, which is where the Government wants to take superannuation going forward.
Our view is that a super system for the future needs to deliver:
These are the Turnbull Government's core superannuation principles that will shape delivery of real outcomes for Australians who are saving for their retirement.
Greater choice in the superannuation system means funds are more competitive and downward pressure is placed on fees - a good outcome for consumers.
If funds are governed better, risk is reduced.
The retirement savings of Australians are too important to allow superannuation to become a free lunch for vested interests in this country.
When consumers have better information, they make better choices, and will achieve better outcomes for their retirement.
When there are more targeted incentives in the super system, it means that it is fit for purpose in delivering what it is intended to achieve.
If the incentives are right and the policy settings stable, Australians will have greater confidence in the system and more independence in their retirement.
Let me now turn to how we are intending to achieve these important outcomes that will set up our superannuation system for the future.
The Financial System Inquiry, led by David Murray, of course, was one of our key election commitments; it set the stage for significant reforms to superannuation and the broader financial system.
Throughout this process we have consulted with a wide range of stakeholders from various industries.
I would like to thank ASFA and its membership for your ongoing, considered, constructive and engaging contribution to this discussion.
The Murray Inquiry found that Australia's financial system is performing well.
However, it also found that there is room for improvement and made recommendations to better position the Australian financial system for the future.
So, in response to the Inquiry, last month the Turnbull Government set out an agenda for improving Australia's financial system, which has five distinct strategic priorities.
I know this is of particular relevance to you here today.
As you know, for many Australians, superannuation is the largest financial asset after their homes.
So the performance of the superannuation system has a direct bearing on an individual's retirement income.
We want as many Australians as possible to actively plan and save for their retirement, to harness the benefits that the superannuation system offers, and to work towards a self-funded retirement.
That's why the Government has committed to a number of significant superannuation reforms leading from the Financial System Inquiry.
Those reforms - which will be implemented in a staged approach - are all about laying the foundation for a superannuation system in which all Australians can have confidence.
The first relates to the governance of superannuation funds.
We've introduced legislation requiring a minimum of one-third independent directors for superannuation trustee boards and an independent chair for APRA regulated funds.
These changes, which are currently before the Senate, ensure that superannuation trustees are making decisions in the best interests of their members, which, in turn, improves the confidence Australians have in superannuation funds.
Second, the Government is enhancing the transparency and quality of information so members and employers can make more informed decisions when comparing funds.
We acknowledge the importance of Australians being empowered to make choices about how to invest their superannuation savings.
If we can help create a more informed superannuation market then we're also likely to see more competition between funds and greater value for customers
The Government will soon release exposure draft legislation for public consultation, outlining a revised portfolio holdings disclosure model and choice product dashboard regime.
We are aiming to strike the right balance between minimising the compliance burden on superannuation funds, and enhancing transparency and comparability of information for consumers.
Third, we are enshrining the objective of superannuation in legislation because doing that will not only inspire confidence in the system, it will also provide a valuable yardstick against which to measure competing superannuation policy proposals.
On top of that, it also helps guide policy makers, industry and the broader community about the real purpose of superannuation.
Some of the changes coming out of the Financial System Inquiry focus on improving the efficiency of the superannuation system.
We are committed to improving competition in the default superannuation market.
Competition will drive greater efficiencies through downward pressure on fees, as well as improving the quality of products and services for members.
The Government is committed to doing more to reduce fees and improve after-fee returns for members.
This provides protection for Australians who don't engage with their superannuation, as well as providing a sound investment option for members that do.
We also want to make sure that our regulatory framework is robust and suits the needs of the superannuation market.
On top of that, we are commissioning the Productivity Commission to develop metrics that can assess the efficiency and competitiveness of the superannuation system, and to develop alternative models for allocating default fund members to products.
The Murray Inquiry noted the absence of strong consumer-driven competition in the default superannuation market, which has resulted in fees not falling by as much as would be expected given the increase in the scale of the system.
While MySuper has been a strong step in the right direction, more needs to be done to reduce fees and improve after-fee returns for fund members.
The Government has accepted the Inquiry's recommendation that agreed to task the Productivity Commission to develop alternative models for allocating default fund members to products.
I invite all of you to participate in the Productivity Commission's consultation processes.
Following the full implementation of the MySuper reforms, we will then ask the Productivity Commission to review the superannuation system using the efficiency metrics.
Over the next few years, we are also rolling out reforms that help Australians become more engaged with their superannuation with a view to making better choices about how their funds are invested.
We are doing this through three key measures.
The first is to allow more employees to choose the fund that receives their Superannuation Guarantee contributions.
It's staggering to think that there are currently around 2 million Australians with no choice here.
We're talking about workers' savings - so it's critical to give them that choice.
This change means that some people who are currently forced to maintain more than one account can consolidate their accounts and avoid paying duplicate fees.
Enabling this kind of choice will also benefit a significant proportion of women who may work multiple, casual jobs or dominate industries like retail where there may not be a choice of fund.
Secondly, we are supporting the development of retirement income products that combine flexibility with better protection against longevity as well as delivering higher retirement incomes and increased consumer choice.
To complement this work, the Government is continuing to remove impediments to retirement income product development.
Third, we're seeking to improve member engagement by way of better and more accessible information for consumers - for example, by including retirement income projections on member statements.
We will be rolling out reforms progressively over the next few years.
At the moment, our focus is on governance reform, transparency and choice of fund.
Next year, we'll shift that a little towards enshrining the objective of the superannuation system and the retirement phase of superannuation.
Let's now turn to the future of superannuation tax reform in Australia.
As everyone knows, the Government is carefully considering the tax treatment of superannuation as part of the Tax White Paper process.
In considering any changes to superannuation, it's important to remember that the tax treatment of superannuation has to be seen in the wider context of retirement income.
Above all else, however, we must remember superannuation belongs to those who have earned it over their working life.
It is not my money, nor the Government's money.
It is your money.
Understanding the purpose of superannuation is a vital part of any policy changes to the taxation of superannuation.
As I've already said, the Financial System Inquiry recommended that the primary objective of the superannuation system should be ‘To provide income in retirement to substitute or supplement the Age Pension'.
As indicated in our response to the Murray Inquiry, this is an excellent starting point for enshrining an objective in legislation.
But let me go broader than that.
Australia's superannuation system is now an integral part of the financial system.
Our superannuation system is a key part of our national savings - indeed, it was instrumental in sheltering us from some of the effects of the global financial crisis.
And, although our superannuation system hasn't entirely matured, it already provides around 15 per cent of assets for people 65 and over and one-fifth of income for that age group.
This is set to rise as more people have the opportunity to contribute to superannuation throughout their whole working life.
But we also need to balance this with recognition that superannuation is a cost to the Government.
This cost is increasing as the superannuation system matures, assets grow and the population ages.
Meanwhile, the age pension continues to provide an important safety net for Australians who do not have the ability to provide for their retirement futures.
So, let's have a look now at the areas that will guide further reforms.
It's important to remember that there can be conflicting principles.
That's why striking the right balance is so crucial.
On one hand, we might want to reduce reliance on the age pension but, on the other, this comes at a cost to Government by way of providing tax concessions as an incentive to lock money away in super.
Other trade-offs include creating the right level of compulsion in the superannuation system while still giving individuals flexibility.
There are four key areas that are foremost in my mind when contemplating potential superannuation tax reforms: adequate retirement incomes; stability and certainty in the retirement phase; flexibility; and an efficient tax system and economy.
As I've noted previously, as a Government, we want to be very sure that superannuation tax concessions are appropriately targeted so that they secure an adequate retirement income for Australians.
But just what is adequate?
One way to approach this is by using replacement rates, where retirement income is given as a proportion of pre-retirement earnings.
We could do that by looking at the Mercer Global Pension Index, which suggests that a benchmark replacement rate of 70 per cent is a suitable rate of pre-retirement income for a median earner.
Treasury modelling indicates that a median income earner (that is, someone earning around $52,000 per annum) would achieve a net replacement rate of around 80 per cent under the current retirement income policy settings.
The precise replacement rate or super fund balance that might be adequate is also dependent on a range of personal circumstances - whether someone owns their own home, where they own it and whether or not they have a chronic illness are just some of the factors that can influence such thinking.
So while governments deliver policy solutions to such issues as best they can, we need to recognise that there is no straightforward answer to the question of adequacy.
Let me make one thing very clear though: while superannuation should ensure adequate retirement incomes, it should not be seen as an open-ended savings vehicle for wealthy Australians to accumulate large balances in a tax-preferred environment, well in excess of what is required for an adequate retirement.
It is not an estate planning vehicle nor was it ever intended to be.
When Australians see the Government supporting the accumulation of enormous superannuation fund balances in a tax preferred, and, in retirement, a tax-free environment, the confidence in the system is significantly undermined.
The issue of confidence now brings me to my second area - the stability and certainty in the retirement phase.
I think we can all agree that this is vital for Australians approaching and enjoying their retirement.
Retirees have saved for their retirement under the existing rules across their working lives.
The Government acknowledges these efforts and sacrifices.
And yet we must also balance all that with the goal of shaping the superannuation system so it provides opportunity to all Australians.
Because until tax concessions and the superannuation system are perceived to strike the right balance, there'll continue to be calls for tinkering and more changes.
So policy stability and certainty in the superannuation system are definitely important.
Nonetheless, there also has to be room for some flexibility in the rules to take modern work patterns into account, such as people taking breaks from the workforce - including women with children and people with caring responsibilities - and then re-joining the workforce.
This is a key goal for the Government and we need to explore whether there are ways to make the superannuation system more responsive to individuals who wish to make catch-up contributions to counteract broken work patterns.
For example, rigidity of caps and other rules can make it difficult for some to improve super balances.
Once an adequate retirement income has been secured, there could also be more flexibility for individuals to choose between consumption opportunities during their working life and compulsory saving for retirement.
I'd now like to move to the final area: making sure we have an efficient tax system and economy.
Australia needs a tax system and economy that is properly targeted and sustainable.
We can't make changes to the superannuation system if the costs of the changes are too high.
So an efficient tax system and economy may involve trade-offs with the other principles I mentioned.
For example, are the costs of providing flexibility to individuals with broken work patterns too high?
Are the tax incentives that help people attain an adequate standard of living unsustainable for the economy?
We must also consider superannuation in the context of the broader economy.
Could the costs of providing superannuation tax concessions, for example, be directed elsewhere in the economy to make it work more efficiently?
Could they, for instance, be directed to tax cuts elsewhere, to encourage participation, productivity and growth?
These are important questions for all of us as we think about the future of our superannuation system.
Ladies and gentlemen, this Government is committed to superannuation reform that creates a superannuation system that works for Australians.
We want to facilitate a conversation with all Australians so we all have a say in how we bring about reforms that ensure our superannuation system can provide higher standards of living for retirees.
But it is just one piece of a jigsaw puzzle that this Government will piece together to back Australians who want to work, save and invest.
And it is just one piece of the puzzle that enables us to deliver a superannuation system that is fit for purpose and delivers greater independence and certainty for Australians in retirement.
I want to see a superannuation system deliver greater choice, stronger governance, better information and more targeted incentives.
And I look forward to working with you - the industry experts - to get there.
Let me start by saying that I'm both a realist and an optimist.
While cognisant of the economic challenges we face, I'm also very optimistic about Australia's economic future.
We know that Australians will not be intimidated out of their prosperity by being overwhelmed by the uncertainties and volatilities of the world in which we live and the transition that is taking place in our economy.
While we cannot control what comes our way we can control how we respond and how we frame our policies.
Our policies are designed to protect Australia's national economic interests and back Australians as they achieve their economic opportunity and financial security in a transitioning economy.
First and foremost it's about jobs.
For Australians to have confidence in our economy and our future, they must have confidence in their jobs and their personal financial situation.
A growing economy is the best and only real way to guarantee jobs for the future and to support a strong welfare safety net that ensures people and families do not get left behind.
Our way forward is to promote growth and build resilience and diversity in our economy so that Australians can face a more complex economic world with confidence.
Our plan is to build a strong National Platform for Economic Growth and Jobs that backs Australians who are out there every day making their way in the world, working hard, saving for their future, and investing in their capabilities and opportunities.
Our plan is designed to back Australia and Australians to earn more.
National Plan for Economic Growth
The Turnbull Government is already building on efforts initiated since the last election to establish the key pillars to support a strong national platform for growth and jobs in our economy:
These are our apps for growth and jobs.
We are implementing our $50 billion national infrastructure plan to unlock the economic potential of our cities, regions and rural areas and better connect Australia - customers and businesses, products and markets, services and the users of those services, researchers and their collaborators, friends and families.
We are aligning our economy with the fastest growing and largest economies in the world through the most ambitious trade push in generations - opening up new markets and opportunities for Australian businesses like never before.
We are working to establish a new and exciting innovation culture in our economy that recognises and backs entrepreneurialism, more effectively converts ideas and innovation into commercialised products and services, and realises the productivity gains in small and large enterprises that can produce stronger profits and higher real wages for employees.
Through our response to the Financial System Inquiry we are continuing to enhance the strength and resilience of our banking and financial systems to provide surety in a dynamic and volatile global economy - providing stability, certainty, choice and protection.
We are exercising strong fiscal discipline to repair the structural weaknesses in our budget, that we inherited from Labor, and to protect our AAA credit rating.
This means first and foremost controlling our expenditure.
To achieve a surplus our plan is to ensure that expenditure is less than revenue, not to increase revenue and taxes to chase ever higher levels of spending.
We want to see more people in the workforce - increased workforce participation - and foster a modern, collaborative and more flexible workplace that allows Australians to realise their full potential in the workplace - which is what productivity is all about.
This is what is necessary to back businesses to employ more people and to deliver real growth in wages that will support higher living standards.
As Adam Boyton from Deutsche recently reminded me, both the pre 1993 and post 2007 period saw relatively low growth in productivity and real wages while by contrast between 1993 and 2007 average productivity growth ran at 1.
9 per cent, compared to 1.
4 per cent, and real wages grew by 1.
7 per cent compared to 0.
2 per cent.
Re-establishing the nexus between strong productivity growth and growth in real wages will be good news for employers and employees alike.
In our response to the Harper Report, we will give Australians greater choice, better services and better government through a renewed focus on improving competition and productivity in the delivery of products and services in the public and private sphere alike.
And finally we are working on changes to our tax and welfare systems to back Australians who have chosen to work, save and invest.
Our goal is to deliver a better tax system, with a better mix and a better combination of taxes at state and federal level that helps us to grow our economy.
We will achieve stronger revenues by having a stronger economy where Australians earn more - not by placing a greater tax burden on our economy.
This includes working collaboratively with State and Territory Governments who, as key potential beneficiaries from these changes, must be key participants and contributors.
And when it comes to our payments systems, the best form of welfare for those able to work, is a job.
We know that the combination between our welfare and tax systems is working when we know that people who are able to work are better off in work than they are on welfare.
That is what a fit for purpose welfare system for working age Australians looks like.
This is the Turnbull Government's plan for an agile and dynamic Australian economy, fit for purpose in the 21st century that will deliver jobs and economic opportunity.
This is a plan Australians can have confidence in because it is fundamentally a plan about them, their abilities and their efforts.
It is a plan that backs Australians who are dealing with the challenges of a transitioning economy and seizing the opportunities that will see Australia expand and diversify our economy.
The need for change
In the time remaining I would like to turn briefly to two of the pillars I have described as part of our National Platform for Economic Growth and Jobs.
These are competition policy and a better tax system.
The diversity and promise of our economy today is, as we all know, the result of tough reforms by governments, and the bravery of the Australian people in allowing them to travel this path.
The Hawke-Keating and Howard-Costello governments understood that Australia, for all its virtues, could not stand still and would walk forward.
Competition reform
Competition policy is the type of big-ticket change that will be the key to lifting innovation and productivity, to help us to realise our potential.
There will be no commodity boom to paper over failure to drive productivity improvements in our economy in the years ahead.
The promise of competition is, after all, about greater choice and opportunity - not for some Australians, but all Australians.
As Professor Harper reminded me greater competition is not measured by how many competitors there are, but how many choices are available to consumers and whether the goods and services they are provided are being delivered as efficiently and effectively as possible.
Ultimately, competition is about getting better outcomes for consumers.
Competition reform is a sure path to tread.
We've been down it before - and it proved a winner for consumers and businesses alike.
Back in 1993, the Hilmer report on national competition policy set us up for a decade of pro-competitive reforms under former Prime Ministers Keating and Howard.
For instance, Optus entered the market as Australia's second telecommunications provider; Australia Post joined the corporate space; government businesses were made more commercially minded.
These changes led to big gains for the economy.
By 2005, the Productivity Commission reported improvements in key infrastructure sectors in the 1990s - to which competition reforms directly contributed - increased Australia's GDP by 2.
5 per cent, or $20 billion.
The Harper Review has shown us that there is a new frontier available, making 56 recommendations on how to revitalise and reshape competition in a modern Australia and in turn boost productivity.
It is a call for innovation - in how we think; in how we invest.
And, most importantly, it is a call for greater choice.
Now, the Government is currently considering all the recommendations - which, I should say, span most sectors of the economy and all levels of government.
In particular it highlights the significant gains for consumers in the area of human services which will be a key growth sector of our economy moving forward.
We expect to make a formal response soon.
States and territories
But it is not a reform agenda the Commonwealth can traverse alone.
Many of the recommendations in the Harper Review are in areas of joint responsibility - such as human services and roads - or state and territory responsibility, such as commercial planning and zoning regulations.
That is why state and territory involvement is critical.
And it is why at the recent Treasurers' meeting I put the Harper reforms back on the agenda to reboot competition reform in Australia.
At this meeting it was clear that there is a pragmatic appetite for governments to work together to see how we can make the most of the opportunities in front of us.
A better tax system
Finally on tax policy, there is strong evidence that Australians are paying too much for their tax system - the economic costs are too high.
It has been a long time between services.
Australia's tax system was designed in a different era, and a different economy.
It was not designed to deal with multinational trade, increasing global competition for investment, the internet, the digital economy and an ageing population.
It is true that we have already moved to tax the digital economy.
We have made great progress and been ahead of the curve to ensure that multinationals are paying their fair share of tax on the income they earn in Australia.
But we would be foolish to think that these measures, that we will continue to pursue, hold the answers alone, as some naively argue.
Many features of the existing system will, over time, limit jobs growth and make it less attractive to invest in Australia, affecting Australia's continuing prosperity.
Other features of our personal income tax system discussed in the briefing paper make it less attractive for people to work, save and invest.
Personal income tax is the largest source of government revenue.
Since the mid-1970s it has consistently raised around half of the Australian Government's tax receipts and continues to be a stable and predictable source of revenue.
Australia relies more on income tax (personal and company) than any other country in the OECD except Denmark.
Around 2 per cent of individuals collectively pay around 22 per cent of total personal income tax.
Australia's top marginal tax rate is higher than the OECD average and relatively high by international standards.
As a proportion of total tax revenue, personal income tax in Australia is the second highest amongst OECD countries.
As a result the inflation tax - or bracket creep as it is also known - next year the average wage earner is forecast to move into the second highest tax bracket.
Around 300,000 Australians are expected to move into the second highest tax bracket over the next two years.
If there were no tax cuts for 10 years, nearly half of all taxpayers will be in the top two tax brackets - an increase from around 27 per cent today to 43 per cent in 10 years.
This means that next year the average wage earner will be taxed up to 37 cents in the dollar on what they earn, but on less than half of every dollar they spend, they will pay only 10c in tax through the GST.
Today around three quarters of people working to pay tax, pay more than 30c on every dollar they earn.
15 years ago 75 per cent paid no more than 30c on each dollar.
Income tax has become the silent tax for many Australians, particularly young Australians.
When they go to the ATM to draw out their cash they do not see, as they do with the GST on their sales receipt, the 19c or 32.
5c or 37c or 45c that has been deducted in income tax - let alone the extra 2c for the Medicare levy.
They just take the cash.
Income tax has become too often out of sight and therefore too often out of mind in comparison to the GST, yet the tax you are paying is just as real and a lot higher.
We do want Australians to earn more, but I also want them to take home more.
I would prefer to leave to them how they choose to spend, save and invest their own money in a way that best suits them and their families.
These aren't the only costs associated with an inefficient and costly tax system.
According to a 2013 Australian Tax Forum study, the costs of navigating the tax system for an average taxpayer have grown by about 73 per cent since 1995.
To achieve a better a tax system, Australia needs to carefully consider the impact of income tax, especially personal income tax, on economic growth and living standards.
Of course these are not the only items on the table for discussion.
The PM has made it clear other areas of commonwealth taxes such as generous superannuation concessions are also under the microscope as well as broader tax integrity measures.
But let's not also forget state taxes and charges that raise almost $85 billion a year - more than the GST.
These taxes cannot be quarantined from the discussion either and I have put them on the agenda for our next Treasurer's meeting.
We are engaged in a good faith process with the states and territories to see how we can improve our tax system to better support jobs and growth.
There has been no serious reform of our tax system since the Howard and Costello changes 15 years ago.
All other so-called reforms since then have been a failure.
We have no intention to rush to failure in this critical area, as we lay out the case for a better tax system.
While I appreciate the interest in jumping to the features stage of the process, the Government has not yet put forward any preferred option or proposal.
The only current public advocates for changing the GST are State Governments and former Labor Premiers.
We will continue to build accord on the objectives and benefits of creating a better tax systems that supports jobs and growth in our economy and will not allow the process to be undermined by ‘rule in' or ‘rule out' debates.
We will be patient and clear headed.
Of course there will be imaginative, frustrated, innocent as well as malevolent speculation.
However, it is our responsibility and in particular my role to get the job done - that is where my focus will remain and I will apply the same discipline as in previous tasks.
Australians have some of the highest living standards in the world, driven by a quarter of a century of uninterrupted economic growth.
Australia's economic growth is driven not only by the abundance of our natural resources, but by the entrepreneurship, hard work and drive of Australian workers and businesses and that is what we want to back.
The role of Government is to ensure that policy settings provide the environment that backs Australians to seek out and capitalise on their opportunities as millions of Australians are doing every day.
A journalist recently asked me at a media conference - is the great Australian dream over?
I said no.
As Liberals it is our cause to champion the politics and policy of optimism.
That is why we are building this strong national platform for growth and jobs in our economy.
oday on International Women’s Day, a very exciting day.
I also acknowledge the Noongar people, the elders past, present and emerging.
Can I particularly acknowledge indigenous women today and can I acknowledge their bravery, their courage for the way that they have, over generations, over centuries, been there for their families and for their people.
Indigenous women are a very special group of people in this country and earlier this week, I had the opportunity to announce the largest ever package of support in relation to domestic violence against women.
And a key part of that was supporting Indigenous women in this country.
And particularly here amongst the mining industry, I want to acknowledge the mining industry for the great work that they do right across - not just this state - but right across the country in supporting indigenous Australians, both with employment opportunities.
But they're a great partner on these important social programs as well.
A terrific partner.
So I want to acknowledge the mining industry for that.
It's great to be here also amongst the mining industry on this day for a couple of reasons.
First of all is because of the great achievements that I think have been achieved here in the minerals industry when it comes to the advancement of women.
Now, I have been doing a bit of advancement of women lately myself.
And Linda Reynolds is here as evidence and proof of that, joined by Melissa Price and Michaelia Cash.
There are now seven women in my Cabinet, which is the highest number of women ever in a Cabinet in Australia's history.
The fact that three of them are from Western Australia - three out of the seven - I think speaks volumes about Western Australia.
And so it's great to have them all in my team.
They're doing a tremendous job across a range of very difficult and very important portfolios.
The other reason is because I understand - my Government understands, Mathias and I understand, and Steve, and Slade, who's here as well, that...
you mentioned I had two girls.
That's true.
And what Jenny and I want for our girls is for them to have all the choices in life that you would hope that they would have.
Mathias I know he feels the same way about his family and all of us do.
And for them to have those choices, something has to happen.
And that is our economy has to be strong.
You look around the world, where women face their biggest challenges and struggles - they're in the developing countries of the world.
Prosperity brings with it its opportunities, of course it does, for every person.
But it particularly brings the ability and the power to be able to increase the standing and opportunities for women around the world.
And that's true here in Australia.
And so I applaud the minerals industry for doing two things.
One is contributing to Australia's prosperity.
Not just here in Western Australia, but all around the country.
The mining industry in Australia makes Australia stronger.
That's why I support it.
I know there are others who don't.
I know there are others at the moment who want to attack the mining industry and talk it down, say that it doesn't have a future.
That's just dead wrong.
When you attack the mining industry, you are attacking Australia's economic future.
Whether that's in North Queensland, whether it's here in Western Australia, whether it's in the Northern Territory, it doesn't matter where you are.
If you're not a friend of the mining industry in Australia, you're not a friend of prosperity in Australia.
And I'm a friend of prosperity in Australia, because I know what it delivers for Australians and I know what it particularly delivers for women in Australia.
A more prosperous country is a stronger society where we can invest $328 million in countering and combating domestic violence in this country, where women can start businesses, grow, take opportunity that they're seeking, take ownership of their economic future.
The programs like the Esther Foundation I was at yesterday can see young women reclaim their lives, reclaim the things that have been taken from them, by having the support of a generous society, because they raise their funds from a generous community and they're supported by us as well.
So, a more prosperous country is good for Australia and it's particularly good for Australian women.
And to have a more prosperous country, you've got to have, in this country, a very strong minerals sector.
So, that's the other reason I was very keen to be here today.
One of the other female members of my Cabinet, Kelly O'Dwyer, said at the Press Club last year, our Minister for Women, “Gender equality isn't about pitting girls against boys.
” See, we're not about setting Australians against each other, trying to push some down to lift others up.
That's not in our values.
That is an absolutely Liberal value, that you don't push some people down to lift some people up.
And that is true about gender equality too.
We want to see women rise.
But we don't want to see women rise only on the basis of others doing worse.
We want everybody to do better, and we want to see the rise of women in this country be accelerated to ensure that their overall pace is maintained.
So Kelly said, "It isn't about pitting girls against boys or women against men.
It's not about conflict," she said.
"It's about recognising that girls and women deserve an equal stake in our economy and our society."
And that's what we're achieving and we still have a long way to go.
It's a powerful message that we all need to understand.
CME, in its efforts to highlight the achievements of women, particularly through the Women in Resources Awards, is to be something to be absolutely commended.
I'm looking forward to meeting some of the nominees today.
The Inspiring Girls Initiative, which connects female students with women working in this industry, I think, is a tremendous initiative, showing them the range of opportunities that they can grab if they want a career in mining and energy.
And we want to ensure that they have the opportunity to have careers in this industry and in so many others.
A job-creating economy will make our families stronger, it will make our communities stronger.
Last year, we released the landmark Women's Economic Security Statement.
It's about backing women to boost their skills and employability, start their own businesses, and importantly give women more options to secure their financial independence when they need it, whether they are starting a career, a family, or in retirement.
Increased flexibility for paid parental leave.
Supporting entrepreneurship opportunities for women, and the STEM program for girls.
And allowing catch-up superannuation contributions if returning to work after a break for family reasons.
The Women's Economic Security Statement has been the next instalment of our delivering for women across Australia.
The record level of female participation in the workforce, the record low in the gender pay gap in Australia, the record number of women going into jobs - more than half of the 1.
2 million jobs, well over half, have gone to women.
As our economy has grown, women have been going faster in terms of securing those opportunities, which we always want to see them achieve.
Now, Karen Andrews is one of the other female members of our Cabinet, and to the great thrill, I think, of most in this room, she's also an engineer.
And they're the women we have in our team.
From different backgrounds.
Great skills.
In business, in law, in the community, in the military, right across our team you will find women who have brought great skills and abilities.
And we're selecting more, particularly since last August, and we've had 19 women now who have been selected as candidates.
And coming into the Senate, Wendy Askew, from Tasmania, will be joining Mathias and the team when we're back in Parliament.
She's formally taken up that position now.
I'm pleased to see that happen.
Of course, we've got further to go, but the women in our party who are achieving particularly out here in the west have been blazing the trail.
And I know so many will follow in the trail that they've created for women in our Party.
And my commitment as the leader of this Party is to ensure that continues and for it to gain momentum, for it to get stronger.
I think that's the record I've demonstrated since taking over the job last year.
I only want to see that continue to grow into the future.
So I wish everybody a very happy International Women’s Day and to remind everyone that the great state of Western Australia is a state that has for so long in our country driven out prosperity and we need to ensure that continues in this state and you cannot do that unless you’re prepared to back the mining and resources industry in this country.
If you’re not prepared to do that, you’re not prepared to back prosperity in this country.
You’re not in a position to be able to support the services that Australian rely on and women rely on.
How have we got the highest ever level of bulk billing in Medicare in Australia’s history?
Because we’ve got a strong economy.
How have we got 2,000 medicines listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme for ovarian cancer, breast cancer, all of these incredibly life-destroying illnesses?
Because we’ve got a strong economy.
And so my plan is to focus on ensuring that we have a strong economy in the future, because I believe that will advance women’s interests here in this country and the program we’ve got to accelerate women’s interest in this country will only see a stronger future for my girls, for all of your girls and all the girls who are here.
Last week when we handed down the Budget we handed down the first surplus that we’ve seen in 12 years.
When we came to government five and a half years ago, unemployment was higher, the Budget was in deficit, debt was growing at 30 per cent a year.
Over the last five and a half years - a lot like the apprentices and the workers behind us - we got under the hood, we got under the car of the Budget and we started repairing it.
It’s been up on the hoist for the last five and a half years and on Tuesday night it came down off the hoist.
It came down and we put the car back on the road in terms of our Budget, because it’s back into surplus.
That surplus means we can now start paying down Labor’s debt and that’s what our Budget is doing.
You know, when you’re doing that, that means you can start investing more and more in the essential services that Australians rely on and the essential infrastructure.
A big part of the Budget that Josh Frydenberg handed down last week, was our plan to manage population growth across the country.
Now, there are many ways that we are working to achieve the managing of our population growth.
We have more sensible migration intake plans that we announced some weeks ago.
I know that’s welcomed here on the Central Coast, which has been feeling the population growth pressures.
It's also stronger working relationships between state, local and the Commonwealth government.
It's ensuring that we're investing in the cohesion of our communities, so as we grow, we grow together, we don't grow apart.
But a massive part of it, is the economic plan of investing in the infrastructure that gets people home sooner and safer, that makes that commute that little bit easier.
That's why, as Lucy has just said, we've put 600 additional car spaces and car parking bays here in Gosford and 140 down in Woy Woy.
But the other thing we're doing is we're ensuring that local economies like here on the Central Coast and in regional areas right across the country, that their own economies are growing.
So you don't have to get on the train in the morning, you can have your job right here.
You can work, you can play, you can live your life here where you've chosen to, on this wonderful part of the Central Coast here just north of Sydney in New South Wales.
That's what we want to see Australians have; we want to see them have more choices about where they live and where they work.
But I tell you what wasn't in our Budget last week.
What wasn't in our Budget last week was taking the choices off Australians, by putting their taxes up.
Labor has $200 billion of higher taxes, telling hard-working Australians - many I suspect who work here and in other places of the coast, buying investment properties, trying to get ahead - they'll be hit with Labor's housing tax.
The thousands of retirees that live here on the Central Coast, taking their choices away, with Labor's retiree tax.
The other one we’ve seen has been revealed just in the last week and a bit; it’s what Labor is doing with their emissions reduction policy, taking the choices away from Australians of what car they even are going to drive.
What we've seen from Labor is telling Australians how they should live their lives, what car they can drive, taking their money away from them in higher taxes and removing the choices that they ultimately have about how they see their way forward.
This new policy that the Labor Party has announced is concerning at many levels, not only that Bill Shorten clearly doesn’t understand the details of his own policy.
And if he doesn't understand it and he can't explain it, then you shouldn't vote for it.
It's as simple as that.
Because what that policy does, not just the goal of a 50 per cent electric vehicles by 2030 when we're only at 0.
2 per cent now – and the Coalition doesn't have any issue at all and in fact we promote the idea of people buying electric cars, if that's what they want to choose to do - it's all about choice.
We are investing in getting public charging infrastructure in place, we are investing in the new technology that would see this realised, but it will be demand-led.
It will be about Australians making choices about the transitions they want to undertake.
We won't go down this mandatory route, where we've got these mandatory vehicle emission standards, emissions standards of 105 grams per kilometre, where 17 out of 20 cars being sold today, would not meet that standard.
It's not just the Hilux and it's not just the Ranger, but it's the Mazda 3 and the i30 from Hyundai.
These are vehicles that will not measure up to Bill Shorten's vehicle emissions standards.
They're the vehicles that will be ultimately outlawed under the plan that Bill Shorten is putting on the Australian people.
But when it comings also to their policy on fuels, that will also push up the price of petrol.
I don't think it's fair frankly, that if you're living here on the Central Coast, if you're living in regional areas, that you should have to pay for the choices that they’re making in the inner cities.
You should be able to have your choice about the sort of vehicle you want to drive, that you want to get around in on the weekend.
If you want to put the under-6s soccer team in the back of your SUV, which is done by mums and dad all over the Central Coast and around the country on a regular basis - these are the choices that Bill Shorten wants to take away with the sort of policies he's talking about.
And he can't explain the details of them, that's what should be concerning.
He's had five and a half years he’s been the Leader of the Opposition and he still can't explain what the economic impact is of his emissions reduction policies.
We've been up-front about it, we'll continue to do that.
We'll continue to keep taxes low.
We'll continue to invest in the infrastructure that supports the Central Coast and communities all around the country.
We'll continue to keep Australians safe and we'll continue to keep Australians together.
Well, the individual you're referring to has actually been prevented from ever returning back to Australia.
So I think when it comes to our Government acting on foreign interference, we've got a pretty strong track record.
I think that compares very significantly to that of the Labor Party, where Senator Sam Dastyari had to resign in disgrace, because he not only compromised himself in standing in front of an Australian Government insignia - standing there with the very individual you're referring to -  that was a disgrace and he had to resign in disgrace.
So when it comes to countering foreign interference, my Government, our Government has put in place the legislation to ensure that we counter that foreign interference.
We put around $36 million into our security agencies in the Budget last week, to ensure that they can be countering foreign interference and I think when it comes to these issues, our Government's record is squeaky clean.
The Government will make all decisions based on the expert scientific advice of organisations, including not just the Department of Environment, but Geoscience Australia and the CSIRO.
So we will always make, as we have all along the way of this process, there have been many decisions made in relation to this and other projects.
But in relation to this project we've always been following the advice of the scientists and we will continue to do that.
People won’t have to wait too long to find out.
But obviously, there were three dates, the 11th, 18th and 25th  and those options are now narrowing, so I don’t think people will have to wait too much longer.
Yeah, the election will be in May and we’ll call that in the not too distant future.
But here in Bass, I mean, the number one stand-out reason for supporting us here is Bridget Archer.
She is a first-class candidate, she has been great over there as a local Mayor and I think that she’s really going to bring a lot to the job.
She’s got a great heart and passion, she’s a mum raising a lot of kids.
She’s really juggling and doing it all and I’m just thrilled to have her in my team.
But we’re backing her up with great policies.
The thing I love about coming down to Launceston more recently, particularly over the last few years, has been just how positive people are.
I mean the northern Tasmanian economy has really, really turned around.
Good morning Fran.
I don't want to hand out anything.
I just want people to keep more of what they earn Fran, that's what tax relief is.
This is people's own money.
This isn't spending, this is money that they've earned.
We believe that the path to keeping our economy strong, which has been so responsible for the budget surplus that was delivered last night, the way you keep doing that is, you keep giving Australians the incentive to keep going out there and doing what they do every day, making our economy stronger by working hard, running their businesses and doing what they do best.
You've got to give them the opportunity to keep doing that.
I mean, otherwise why would they work harder under a Labor Government that just wants to increase their taxes?
Under our Government they’ll have the incentive to keep doing exactly what they're doing.
That's what makes our economy strong.
Well again Fran you’re seeing it as expenditure.
We don't see it as that, we see it as an investment in Australians to keep our economy growing.
You don't make -
And we are going to stay in surplus over that entire period.
We will pay the debt down to zero, just like John Howard and Peter Costello did, which is what the Budget set out last night.
But you don't make your economy stronger and more resilient to face the very challenges you're talking about, by increasing taxes.
I mean, $200 billion -
That’s already taken to account in the Budget.
That's why the Treasurer was able to say last night that we achieved these surpluses while maintaining the discipline of keeping our taxes below the speed limit of 23.
9 per cent.
Well our forecasts are always conservative.
As you know unemployment is now at 4.
9 per cent, which is better than -
And what we have achieved are $10 billion and better improvements on the Budget bottom line in the last two Budgets we delivered, Fran.
So we've been overachieving on what we've put in the Budgets for years now.
That's why we've been able to come back and get the Budget in surplus.
But you know what, the important -
I'll tell you.
The wages growth is going to come from businesses continuing to expand, more people accessing more markets investing in their businesses, because of the low tax environment we're creating for them.
Employment growth continues because we've got unemployment down to the lowest level in the last decade, Fran.
So we're going to get more people in jobs, 80,000 more apprentices we're going to train.
This is what the Budget is driving; continued growth in our economy.
That's where you get wage increases from.
You won't get wage increases from a reckless emissions target of 45 per cent, which is going to force those same businesses that people want wage rises from, to spend $36 billion paying for carbon credits from companies from countries overseas.
No.
This is the big lie of what Labor's been saying about their tax plan.
Labor's tax plan is about taxing some people more, to pretend they're providing relief to others.
We're providing tax relief right across the board, Fran.
No, no there’s tax relief going right across the board.
Now, that tax relief is designed to encourage Australians to go out there and keep doing what they're doing.
You know, you’ve got people at the moment, they're on their way to the trams and they're on their way to the trains and the ferries and I want to give them the incentive every single day - regardless of where they sit in the labour force, regardless of what job they have or what their income is - I want them to keep going out there and doing the right thing for their families, which they want to do.
No, because we're not going to put on 45 per cent reckless emissions target, which is going to put a further tax on the economy.
We're not going to put a $5 billion retiree tax on Australians.
We're not going to increase taxes for half the population, this is what Labor plans to do, Fran.
They have $200 billion dollars and more, plus the reckless emissions target, which will put up the costs of absolutely everything and cost wages by independent analysis of $9,000.
That’s what Labor's plan is.
Our plan is lower taxes and people keeping more of what they earn.
But importantly, investing back in the services.
I mean, hospital funding Fran, has increased by 63 per cent under our Government just till now.
Medicare is up 27 per cent and schools funding is up -
That is my Budget.
I’m talking about schools, hospitals and Medicare, Fran, and it’s all gone up.
Because Fran I'm going to put this Budget to the Australian people.
Labor played this game last year and they tried to split our tax plan in the Parliament and played games to try and put up taxes for other people, while pretending to help others.
No, I don't believe so at all Fran, I think I just outlined it perfectly well.
If the Labor Party supports the tax cuts, well, they have to do is say so and the Tax Office can administer it on that basis.
But I don't think Australians will trust them to do that, Fran and I don't trust them to do that because their form is to put up tax.
You see, we have a tax discipline in our Budget which says that we have a speed limit on how much you can tax the economy.
The Labor Party is going to abolish that and that's going to mean tens of billions of dollars of higher taxes weighing down our economy, slowing growth which slows wages.
It puts people out of work.
Now, I want the next decade to be a strong one.
You said at the start of the interview, it's taken us 12 years to get back to where John Howard left us and Peter Costello.
Last time people changed the government and voted Labor, they've been paying for it for a decade.
You vote Labor once you'll pay for it for a decade.
That's what last night's Budget demonstrated.
Because that is our economic record, Fran.
It's our economic record and the strength of the economy that matters to Australians going about their business today.
The choice about who the leader will be, will be between Bill Shorten and I, for the country at the next election.
And the Liberal Party has changed their rules to ensure that successful at this election, then if you vote Liberal at this election, you get me as Prime Minister.
If you vote Labor at this election, then you get Bill Shorten as prime minister.
That's the choice that is before the Australian people.
Our Party changed its’ rules, the Labor Party changed its rules many years ago.
What that means is, at this election, if you vote Liberal, then I will be your Prime Minister for the next three years.
What that means is the record investments in hospitals and schools.
I've got to say, of all the measures in the Budget that we announced last night, Fran - and I'm sure you'd agree \sit’s the $461 million we're putting to combat youth suicide and youth mental health challenges.
I don't know of a family in this country that in some way, through a friend or God forbid directly in their own family's experience, that haven’t been touched by youth suicide.
That's what a surplus does.
That's what a strong economy does.
That's the thing I'm most proud of in this Budget; that we are going to take on the challenge and combat youth suicide in this country.
Because it's taking far too many of our young lives.
Thanks a lot Fran.
G’day Jon.
Well that's a terrible lie, Jon.
What you've just said.
All of it.
All of what you've said is untrue.
Let me explain why.
No that’s not right Jon.
What you yourselves said would be its allocated money and people are desperate for services and not getting them.
Let me explain what happens with the NDIS.
What happens is based on estimates that are provided by the states working with the Commonwealth to understand what the expected demand is, then you pay out what the services are that are provided in response to that demand.
Now, we overestimated the demand in the NDIS.
That money actually shows up in extra expenditure on hospitals where a lot of those services are being provided through the state.
So it's just swings and roundabouts.
No, not at all.
Jon, that’s just out and out wrong, that's not how it works.
The NDIS is funded on a complete demand-based system.
Every single invoice for every single service, every one presenting for a service, it's all funded.
It's all funded not just next year, this year, but into the future.
What happens is -
We've just increased the payment and for providers.
That's what's been done.
Jon I’m sorry, I've got to stop you there because you cannot tell those lies to the Australian people.
No, it is a lie Jon.
Because every single cent that needs to go to the NDIS, every single demand that is there for the NDIS -
Every single service that's provided and sought -
No, I'm sorry, Jon.
I'm sorry, every demand for the NDIS is fully funded.
There are no policy decisions in relation to the NDIS other than every single element of the demand is fully funded.
What happens is if you get a lower demand on the NDIS, then you get higher expenses in the hospital system.
And so these are the same patients and they're getting the same support, they're getting it through a different system.
I’m sorry Jon, you’ve got this absolutely wrong.
But they are paid for through the health system Jon.
I’m sorry Jon, you cannot put that falsehood up just because that's what the Labor Party is saying -
Again, if you want to repeat the lies of the Labor Party to your listeners -
You can do that, but if we’re going to have a debate, we can have a debate or we can have an interview.
And you’ve got it wrong, Jon.
Well there’s an uncanny coincidence
Well it’s a contest of both.
It is a contest about who's best to lead the country going forward and it is also about the record of our Government, which has seen hospital funding increase by 63 per cent since we were first elected.
Schools funding for public schools has increased by 62 per cent.
Medicare funding increased by 27 per cent, a Budget that -
No they’re not contested, they're the hard facts of what has occurred since we were elected until now.
They are the financial accounts of the nation, Jon.
They're not contested, they're actual facts.
That is what we've done with hospitals, schools and Medicare.
We also have the highest bulk-billing rate in the country on record.
That is our record on health and services.
But the other thing we've done last night, Jon, I'm sure you'd agree with this - we disagree on things from time to time, I'm sure your listeners understand and they know it's good natured - but $461 million dollars to invest in combating youth suicide and the youth mental health challenge in this country.
From the most remote Indigenous communities to the suburbs of our big cities, that is what a strong economy and a balanced Budget can do.
Yes, I did that ages ago.
I committed to that last year Jon, why would that change?
You shouldn’t pay attention to the bubble Jon, you’ve been around too long to pay attention to the bubble.
Well, once we've completed the business case.
When we were down there launching it the other day, we expect that to be in about 18 months to two years.
No, the business case needs to be done which works out the most effective way to do this, that's the first stage of the plan.
That starts now.
That starts right away.
Then when we put that together, it works exactly like we work the Melbourne Airport Rail Link.
As you know, we announced that in last year's Budget and were able to conclude the agreement, $5 billion each with Dan Andrews and the Victorian Government and ourselves.
This will follow exactly the same process, working closely together, because the Victorian Government, as you know, has already done quite a lot of work on this.
So we'll align those two pieces of work and we'll get moving as quickly as we come to that agreement with the State Government.
We look forward to doing that and I have every confidence that we will.
We’re working very well with Dan Andrews.
Well we can.
It's a function of getting the business case landed and it's a function of getting the agreement together with the State Government.
Jon, as soon as we can get it moving, we'll begin moving.
That's exactly what we're doing and we'll do it with the State Government and we're moving on all these projects.
There is $6.
2 billion for new projects to bust congestion, improve safety and better connect towns and regions all across Victoria.
This is a huge boost.
Jon, if we're in a position to start earlier, we will.
We've allocated $700 million to the Waurn Ponds upgrade.
$700 million to upgrade that project, that's what we've committed in this Budget.
That's what we've committed, $700 million.
There is expenditure now and there's expenditure over 10 years, it's a big project Jon.
You can't upgrade the Waurn Ponds line by going through a drive through at McDonald's, you've got to do the planning, you've got to get it done you've got to work with the state government.
I don't think people expect these projects to be done overnight.
But you've got to turn up and provide the funds and that's what we're doing.
Well that's not true either, Jon.
I mean you've got to stop saying this stuff, we've been delivering billions of dollars of infrastructure projects in Victoria and we're going to continue to deliver billions of dollars
For these projects, so we’re just going to keep getting on with it, Jon.
We're investing in infrastructure, we're investing in infrastructure in Victoria and particularly in Melbourne which is straining with the pressures of population and ensuring that we're delivering the projects.
Whether it's on the Hume Freeway, the $50 million there, for the M80 Ring Road, the Calder Freeway, the Gap Road, the M80 Ring Road, that's $50 million, the Ballarto Road at Skye which is $30 million, the Princes Highway intersection upgrades at Pakenham to Beaconsfield, that's s$17.
8 million.
We’re doing all of these things Jon.
That's exactly what we're doing Jon.
We established the Skilling Australians Fund last year Jon, that was in last year's Budget.
We've been investing in these skills each and every year.
As you know, the training programs are delivered particularly by state governments when it comes to TAFE.
80,000 new apprentices, we're going to need them because we're building a lot of roads and a lot of bridges and we're building our economy.
That's why we're investing in those with the increased incentives for employers and for those taking on apprenticeships.
But not just that -
State governments fund TAFE, Jon.
State governments fund TAFE.
They're substantially funded by state governments.
They're the responsibility of state governments and what we're doing here - I mean, I've seen people pour money into those programs and TAFE and not get the outcomes.
The great mistakes that is often made it that you just throw buckets of money into state government programs and they produce results.
Now, particularly in the area of skills development, I haven't seen those results.
We've been investing year in year out in those state government programs all around the country and we haven't been seeing the results.
So we've decided to take more direct action when it comes to investing in skills through these programs, by investing in the incentives provided to employers and to those taking up apprenticeships to make sure they can get out there.
So 80,000 in the most needed trades and we're looking forward to backing them in to do that, over half a billion dollars in this Budget to do just that.
Well, I want to see it passed through the Parliament and that's what is going to happen.
That will be in the Government's bill this morning when it's introduced into the House -
No it's in the bill and it's the Government's policy.
Jon, we’re getting it done.
I'll tell you why it's important.
Because this year's Budget, the year we're currently in, which was the Budget I handed down last year, we have bettered what I said a year ago by around about $10 billion and in the previous year, we did exactly the same thing.
So with our Government, when we hand down budgets, we outperform them in the 12 months that follow, because we use conservative estimates.
We balance reward with responsibility and reality when we put our budgets together and that's why Australians trust us.
People know Labor can't manage money and they can't trust Labor to deliver tax cuts, legislated tax cuts.
We're providing that relief and we're providing the economic leadership.
So there’s a very clear choice at the next election; Bill Shorten and the Labor Party - and we all know what that is.
Or you can have my Party with me leading it at the next election and there’s a very clear choice.
Well I’m going to be busy all the way through mate, be busy all the way through.
When we announce the election, you'll know when it is.
And was that an invitation?
That’s very kind.
I'll send a videogram.
Good on you, Jon.
I was here two weeks ago.
And go down and have a chat to the people at the Stirling Pool still the pool where I do my laps when I'm here.
They were happy to see me again when I was down there last night.
This is a place I'm a regular visitor to and have been over 20 years.
I always love being here.
Well I can understand why Bill Shorten might want to come here and try and explain to people why he tried to work against us getting a fairer deal for GST for W.
Perhaps he's just got a lot more to explain to people over here in the West.
But when it comes to our government, I think Western Australians know exactly who we are and exactly what we're about.
And when we make a promise we deliver on it.
Well, I just sort of answered that question there.
The most exciting thing I think for our government which I've been central to has been our job creation record.
That's the thing that floats my boat.
That's what excites us as a government, is when we can create those jobs.
Of course, there are many other initiatives that we've lead, particularly over these last six months.
The privilege of leading the National Apology to the victims of institutional child sexual abuse was I'd have to say the most difficult day, but also the most important day.
Those are the moments where Australians are expecting their Prime Minister to properly convey the deep sense of hurt and grievance and empathy.
And I found it an incredibly humbling day as I sat and listened over several weeks and longer than that before.
And I often think about that day and the people that I met.
See the great privilege of doing this job is how many people and how many Australians you get to meet in so many different circumstances.
And you get a window and a connection to Australian life that probably not many others really get to see.
You see its greatness.
You see its beauty in its people and you also see the things you need to address.
So I love doing this job.
It's the great privilege of my life.
And the best players, whether it's in AFL or anything, they don't care how many games they've played, they care about how they play the game each and every day.
I was talking to Paul Gallen the other day - I know it's Rugby League, so just give me a break - But Paul Gallen played 328 games for my beloved Sharks on the weekend.
That is the all time club record.
And I sent Paul a message before the game just congratulating him.
And he sent me a text back saying "Thanks mate, I just want the win today.
" And that's how I approach every single day.
Just doing the job with Australians that I have the privilege to do for Australians and to seek their mandate at the next election to keep doing that job for them.
I'm glad you've come round.
I think of the West Coast Eagles.
I was there.
The Collingwood supporters were pretty cocky after that first term, that first quarter.
But the boys had a great plan to get themselves back into that game and they didn't get distracted.
They just kept their head down and they kept going.
I'm sure there are plenty of fans in the stadium, supporters indeed, 'ah, this is done'.
They didn't believe that.
And I'm the same, and my team is the same.
We know what our job is.
We know what's at stake here.
I'm not kidding when I say you vote Labor, you pay for it for more than a decade.
The economy you will live in, your kids will live in, the business that you run, that someone may want to start, the school fees you might want to pay.
That's all going to be determined by the economy you live in, in the next decade.
And the decision that Australians will make at this next election will determine that environment.
And this is very important because people express a lot of opinions on politics.
They are even known to write it in the newspaper from time to time.
But opinions are interesting but votes change the course of a nation and when people go to vote, they're not expressing opinion.
They are actually taking part in what is going to set the economic climate for the next decade.
And I think Australians know, and here in Western Australia you are on the way back with your economy.
You're on the way back.
And I would say to you at this time, more than ever, you do not want to hand the economic wheel to someone in Bill Shorten who does not know how to drive.
I wouldn't have described my comments as tempered to be honest.
I said that President Erdogan had failed on the promise made by Ataturk to the mothers of Anzacs.
If that's tempered, well I must be quite a diplomat.
I was furious about it and I'm pleased that the responses that have been made since that has reflected, I think, a respect for the Australian position.
So no, I would say that my response was incredibly strong and swift.
And the result of that always has to be me thinking about the safety of Australians and ensuring that our interests are legitimately protected.
See, we have a very good relationship with the Turkish people.
And I think there is a bond between Australians and Turks that descend from that great conflict over a hundred years ago.
And that's what I rely on.
The bonds between the people.
Of course, I rejected absolutely and condemned the comments that were made.
But what I didn't do, is I didn't ascribe them to the Turkish people, or importantly, I did not ascribe them to Turkish Australians because I know because I spoke to Turkish leaders in Australia that morning and discussed this issue with them.
And so my remarks were designed to do what a responsible Prime Minister would do; express our very deep outrage about this but also ensure that we continue to get on with the job of protecting Australia's interests and the safety of Australians.
Well, worried enough to ensure that I have a national security plan which keeps them safe.
I would never put - I think about my kids and my wife a lot in this context.
I want to keep them safe.
And I extend that to every Australian.
I'm not looking for some special deal for my family and something different for everyone else.
Quite the contrary.
And so that's why we've invested in our security agencies and our services.
That's why our Defence Forces will get back to 2 percent of GDP years ahead of schedule.
Last time I was here - I stress just a couple of weeks ago - when I was out at the SAS regiment and I was going through and looking at their capability of deployment and what they're able do, I was incredibly impressed with that.
I mean that's what we're investing in.
I just saw the new centre that we built out there and our investments in safety and security, though, aren't just about protecting our borders - and you know what Labor will do on that front - and it's not just about our Defence Forces.
Keeping Australians safe is about keeping Australians safe from domestic violence, keeping Australians safe is about keeping kids safe from sexual predators whether in the physical world or online.
Keeping Australians safe is what I have been raising with the social media companies.
And that's why I've raised that with Shinzo Abe, the Japanese Prime Minister and current president of the G20.
These companies, if they create these platforms, they need to make them safe and not allow them to be weaponised by terrorists or other predators.
And so right across the board, my plan is to keep Australians safe.
To do that, you've got to keep the economy strong.
Because if you don't have a strong economy, you can't do that.
Countries with weak economies don't have strong defences.
And that's why having a strong economy is so important.
Countries with weak economies don't have strong health systems.
Countries with weak economies don't have a PBS where you list 2000 pharmaceuticals which is what our government has done.
And under the Labor Party when they were in government, they stopped listing affordable medicines because they couldn't manage their budget.
A strong economy is the ticket to essential service.
At this election, health’s your major issue?
That's the case for many Australians - the way I'm guaranteeing those health services is because we know how to run a budget and we know how to run a strong economy.
That's what guarantees health services, not pledges from platforms.
Well that's the decision that we've taken and I've announced this morning and the final decision on how preferences are allocated right across the ticket, you can only do once you know who all the nominations are.
Sadly, there will be a lot of competition for who goes in the final last spot.
There are a lot of extremist views on the left and on the right in Australian politics and we'll work through that once we know who all the nominations are.
But, what happened this week was shocking.
It was deeply concerning as the party that actually introduced our strong gun laws.
And I don't care if they were drinking scotch or not, who cares, that's not an excuse.
Even flippantly if it were that, and I don't think it was, the idea of our gun laws being traded for political donations is abhorrent.
Now, I waited to see what the response of the One Nation leadership would be to those events and I was very disappointed.
I thought it was unsatisfactory and that's why we've taken the decision that we have.
Well what if Fraser Anning's running?
What if Reclaim Australia is running?
What about all of them?
I mean there's no shortage of candidates for going lost on our ticket, I can tell you.
That's alright, Bill Shorten's going to put Fraser Anning above One Nation and he's going to put Reclaim Australia above One Nation.
See this is the thing.
You've got to think this stuff through.
It's alright for Bill to get up there and give his grab on this sort of thing.
But this is the same bloke who had a six day delay, not a six second if you go on 6PR, but a six day delay on actually calling out Michael Daley, the Labor New South Wales leader going to election for saying Asian migrants take your jobs.
Now the question I have is will Bill Shorten have called him out if Michael Daley had won the election?
Why did he wait till the election was over?
Can't get himself off WeChat today and yesterday.
But this bloke took six days and an election and only a few weeks before he was getting up there and saying Michael Daley was the saviour to everybody in New South Wales.
You've got to think this stuff through.
When John Howard made the same decision that I've made today, he did it in a similar way.
He didn't rush into it.
He thought about it carefully.
And the other thing I've done, as John did - One Nation is one thing, the people who vote for them are another.
Any comments I make about the behaviour of One Nation, particularly in this past week, that does not in any way extend any commentary on those who voted One Nation or considered to vote for One Nation.
They are Australians with real questions about real issues going on in their communities.
And my appeal to them is these other parties, they're not going to answer those questions.
They don't have the answer to those questions.
They're not parties in government.
They have no responsibility.
They'll say what they think you want to hear, but they don't have any answers to water, they don't have any answers to managing population, they don't have any answers on national security.
The Liberal National Parties, the Liberal Party here in Western Australia, have those answers.
And so if you're looking to answer those questions, then we are the answer to those questions.
Don't flirt with these minor parties.
We've seen what it's done in the Senate.
Senator Reynolds here, our newly minted cabinet minister from Western Australia, congratulations Linda.
We've see what that's done in the Parliament.
And it's put another 10 years on Mathias’ life in negotiating these arrangements through the Senate.
Both Mathias and I once used to be very good looking guys.
Dealing with those things is sort of had a pretty big impact on that.
But, that's what the chaos of these other parties do.
And so that's why One Nation will go below Labor.
Well it's not always a marketing problem.
But these things can be relevant.
When I was Managing Director of Tourism Australia I ensured that the eight Australian tourism exchanges came here twice.
And why did I do that?
Because the world is always looking for, or the world's tourism buyers, are always looking for new and amazing experiences and they're all here.
I mean, there are a lot of known experiences around Australia and they're fantastic, and we've got a lot to sell.
But I always thought Western Australia had quite an edge in terms of the types of experiences that are on offer here in WA.
So I think it is relying very much on that freshness and that newness and that more exotic side of the tourism experience here in Western Australia.
Of course the accommodation and so on, but there's been real improvements here on that in Western Australia.
And so it is about getting your share of voice, it is actually about connecting with those customers all around the world.
But I think you've always got to focus on the things that give you the edge in any business or anything like that.
And I think WA's edge has always been these incredible, quite amazing, natural experiences that you literally don't get anywhere else in Australia let alone the rest of the world.
Well you're right.
Things did happen very quickly and very late for me in that piece.
Pretty much the last 24 hours or so, or thereabouts, but I did call Jenny and I said, 'You might want to pick the kids up from school and jump in the car and come down', and talked to her about what was happening.
I've been blessed with my family in a way that it's hard for me to put into words.
They are so incredibly supportive.
But what I'm trying to teach my girls is you believe in things, then you put the effort in and you champion them.
I was raised by my parents that life was not about what you accumulate but what you contribute.
My parents served in their local church and their local community.
My dad was a policeman.
My mum and dad ran a thing called Boys Brigade and Girls Brigade for 45 years every Thursday and Friday night of a school night.
For 45 years.
So that's the model of community service and I was brought up to go 'you're here to make a contribution', and I'm trying to teach, with Jenny, my girls the same thing.
But I'm so blessed with Jen because Jenn has continued to provide a nurturing environment for our family.
Her focus is very much all there and they allow me to come home every now and then and spend some time which I love more than anything else.
Going down the footy with my girls, with Lily and so on or whatever we might be doing, reading books with Abbey.
Precious moments, you grab them, but I'm blessed to have a great family who supports what I do.
Someone's done a meme and put my head on it.
You should check it out.
My wife thought it was hilarious.
You'd never see me dance like that, I can tell you.
Yeah.
For me it was more when I was at Kirribilli because I'd spent obviously a lot of time at The Lodge as Mathias does and all senior pollies do.
So that was a fairly familiar environment for a Minister.
It was more when, I suppose, we had to move our family from our beloved shire in southern Sydney, largely because of security reasons and practical reasons.
I remember my youngest daughter said to me - and I explained that we had to move and she wasn't that flash about it because we had a small pool in our place, like a backyard pool – she goes “is there pool?
”, “Well no, there's not, next door's got one”, which is the Governor General's place in Admiralty House.
And she said, “well can you ring them and ask them if I can swim in their pool?
” And I said okay.
So I rang Lady Cosgrove and I said, “Lily wants to know if she can use the pool”.
Now Lady Cosgrove grew up in Cronulla, so she has the Shire link, and she said 'of course, of course, of course'.
So I told Lily and she said “that's all good, yep, we're good Dad, we'll move, we got a pool”.
That was when John Howard - and for me John Howard has been just like when I was Treasurer with Peter Costello - they are the great role models for me in my political life.
And Bruce Baird who was the former member in my electorate had been just a massive influence on my political life.
And I always feel like when I'm at home in Kirribilli that I'm staying at John's house and I keep expecting him to walk out of a room somewhere and say 'Oi, what are you doing here?
'
All good.
Chloe Shorten.
She's lovely.
We share a commitment to at least what we believe in, I suppose.
Otherwise, you wouldn't go into public life and as a fellow parliamentarian, there is respect for other parliamentarians.
I've put it in those terms and don't worry, I wasn't getting too generous there.
And thirdly, he's a mad Collingwood fan.
I'm not.
But anyone who likes going to a game, I think good for them.
John Howard.
That's a good question.
I would say Joe Lyons.
Managing our independence and our national interests within the competing demands of the great powers of the world today, in our region.
You know, it's an occupational hazard.
Otherwise, you walk into an FM radio interview and they will say, 'we're doing this Google game, we've just Googled you' and then they'll hit you with five questions, so it's an occupational hazard to keep abreast of these things.
No, to the best of my knowledge.
I don't think I am.
I might have to check those who - nope, I don’t believe we are.
But you know, that's alright.
That’s a very good question.
Not that I aspire to the title you've just outlined because I think that's the best thing about Australia, is that will never happen.
Take a look around the world and you see where that has happened and it reminds you just how precious our freedom is.
But you know what?
That law was passed.
The one I'm interested in.
It's called the Constitution.
I haven't, but I've got to tell you one story on that.
I was down at the markets in Melbourne, at Epping, the other week.
And there's every single piece of fruit and vegetable known to humankind.
And I think, if you're going as a politician and you're engaged in kicking the ball or bowling, you can't help but remember back to that image of John Howard bowling - sorry John - but any time you go anywhere near fruit and vegetable you just say 'don't eat the onion'.
I've had the great privilege in many different roles both inside and outside of politics and I've got to say I've never visited a part of the country I haven't liked.
I really haven't.
And remember, I was in tourism before and I've seen probably more of this country than most people.
But what makes every part of Australia so great to visit, and this was a key part of the tourism message that I was trying to pitch when I was responsible for it, it's actually us that's the attraction.
What makes all of these places so great?
Yeah, physically magnificent, beautiful, it's great.
But the things that impact you are the people that you meet and Australians are awesome wherever you go.
They're awesome.
Jobs.
The economic strength of the country.
Because from that, everything else flows.
You want to do something in health, you must have a strong economy.
If you want to do something in education, you must have a strong economy.
You want to defend the nation, you must have a strong economy.
If you don't have a strong economy, you don't have a plan for anything else.
Well, thank you for coming together this morning.
I'm pleased to announce that I'll be recommending to the Governor-General that Ms Ita Buttrose be appointed the next chair of the ABC.
The ABC plays an extremely important role in Australian life and has done for generations.
It's an important Australian institution and we have seen that time and again and most recently we have seen that in the fires and the floods that have once again ravaged our nation over the summer period.
It's the ABC that those who have been stricken by those disasters have turned to in their times of need to get the information and reliable news services that they have needed to cope with these debilitating disasters.
But that's not the only role, of course, that the ABC plays.
It plays a pervasive role throughout Australian life from our youngest to our oldest.
All across the generations.
And we have all had our own direct association and wonderful stories that we can tell about the ABC.
So when you ask someone to take on the role as chair of the ABC, it needs to be someone you know to be trusted with that important institution.
And in asking Ms Buttrose to take on this role, that's exactly who I believe we have been able to find.
I'm very appreciative of her willingness to take on this role.
Ita, as we know, I hope she doesn't mind me being informal…
…has the strength, the integrity and the fierce independence that she is known for to take stewardship of this important Australian institution.
But it is not just her extensive experience in publishing and broadcasting which equips her for this role as we know.
As a former Australian of the Year, Ita's experience, whether it comes to her support for causes like Alzheimer's, arthritis, AIDS, the Smith Family, the arts, the environment, these are all issues over her professional roles both in broadcasting and journalism as well as her roles outside of those undertakings, she's demonstrated a passion, a deep knowledge and empathy for very much in line, I think, with the views and the wishes and concerns of Australians.
But the other thing that I think really sets Ita apart is this: The reason she has been so successful - in publishing, in broadcasting, is she has always put her viewers, her listeners and her readers first.
And you know what?
That's what the ABC needs to do too.
It's about their viewers, it's about their listeners, it's about their readers, and the services they provide to Australians.
And in Ms Buttrose we have someone who has demonstrated throughout her career that the best way to run a broadcasting and publishing organisation is to focus on the people for whom it's for - which is the readers and the viewers, and the listeners to the ABC.
Australians trust Ita.
I trust Ita.
And that's why I have asked her to take on this role and I'm absolutely thrilled that she has accepted our ask to take on that role and I want to congratulate her on her pending appointment obviously subject to the Governor-General and those processes we followed in the normal way.
Thank you very much, Ita.
I'm going to ask the Minister to make a few comments and then we'll ask Ms Buttrose to make a few.
Chair-designate?
Thank you very much Ita, Let's take some questions on this matter.
As usual I know there’ll be other questions on political matters of the day and given the fierce independence of the ABC, I won't impose on the chair-designate to be here for those questions and you might excuse Ita at that point.
Well the Labor Party put in place a process when they were in government which was this independent process of the Secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet appointing a panel.
And that panel undertakes that process at complete arm's lengths from the government.
I have no involvement in it, the Minister has no involvement in it.
They appoint the recruiters who are involved and provide the terms for those recruiters.
So, the Labor Party set up a process, we have followed that process, but where I don't believe that process actually meets the requirements, then the government of the day has the ability to make the right appointment and that's what I have done today.
That's the process I have always followed by the way.
And from time to time I have had my complaints with the editors and I have dealt with them through those processes and I have been able to find some satisfaction in how those processes are followed.
It hasn't been uncommon for the ABC to actually issue apologies to me in the past on air, in fact, and so I followed those processes and always will continue to.
I respect the independence of the ABC as our Government always has, and in the new chair-designate, I know there will be a fiercely independent chair and who, I think, commands great respect for the Australian people when it comes to the integrity of the journalistic process.
And that means getting facts right.
It means getting things right and that's why I have great confidence in making this recommendation to the Governor-General.
So, you know, we'll continue to follow that Process and I was very pleased to invite Ita to consider this role earlier this year and I'm thrilled that she's taken up the challenge.
I'm just amused.
Well, I'm not proposing that.
But what I can assure you is that all the processes of the Act have been followed.
You asked about the process through cabinet as well.
It followed the normal cabinet process.
It went to cabinet.
It's my responsibility as Prime Minister to put forward a nomination to cabinet which I did and that was enthusiastically supported earlier this week and to work with the Minister for Communications in that process in the department.
All of those processes were followed.
I think that's the important point.
And when you follow all the important processes and you make decisions having followed those processes, which is what we have done, which leaves open where I feel that the recommendations that were made to me, if in my view and the government's view, don't meet the standard or the requirement that we have, then we're at liberty to make a further nomination which we have and we'll be doing that to the Governor-General.
We will table our reasons for doing so in the Parliament in the normal process which is required under the Act.
So the processes have been followed.
That's including the requirements for official consultation with the Leader of the Opposition which was done earlier today.
Behind The News.
I remember it as a kid and that's where I started getting my first current affairs reporting from - was Behind The News.
And it was a bit different back then than what it is today, but - the fact it's still there, I think is great.
No, there has been a lot since then, obviously.
I always understand in all the roles that I have had, the importance of, you know, appearing on the flagship interview programs on the ABC.
I have never been a stranger to those whether it's the 7.
30 or Insiders in the past or most recently AM, all of these.
I mean they play an important role.
I have always treated those with the respect they have earned and their presenters as well.
And I have dealt with many of those presenters and they're always a gruelling and tough interview, I have got to say.
And that's as it should be and I think as leaders we - we are in a position to having to put ourselves forward for that as indeed we are here today.
So look, there are more, Hugh and we'll have a coffee one day and I'll share more with you.
But the one - perhaps the first engagement is always the sweetest and that was Behind The News all those years ago.
I can assure you that any conversations I have with the chair-designate on these matters will always remain between the Chair’s designate and indeed the Chair and I.
If I have any formal issues that I need to raise with the ABC, then there are appropriate channels for doing that.
That should be in place next week.
Any more questions on this issue before we move on?
Can I also pass on my best wishes to Kerri-Anne as well.
We, Ita and I just heard about that before we came here.
Yeah.
That is a true love story, a love story that shows how lucky we are to have people who we love in our lives and I'm sure Kerri-Anne will be deeply comforted by that relationship over such a long period of time and I'm sure she will get enormous waves of comfort and support from the Australian people.
They shared their story openly with the Australian public and they let people into a very private part of their lives and I think the strength and determination, care and compassion that was shown in that relationship was an encouragement to all Australians.
We love you, Kerry-Anne and we just hope that these days and weeks ahead are not too arduous, but we know they will be, and you have the love and care of the nation with you.
So with that, we might thank Ita again and we will get on to the other matters of the day.
Thank you.
Can I also thank the acting chair Kirstin Ferguson for the role she’s been performing since taking on the role of acting chair, and she’ll obviously be engaging with the chair-designate as we move through that next phase and after those events of last year that required quite a bit of skill and experience to ensure that the ABC could get back to what they need to focus on, and that, I think, has occurred and I want to thank Kirstin on what she has done, I'm sure Mitch would, too.
On other matters today, as you know, the last four remaining children who are on Nauru at the regional processing location - of course, they hadn't been in detention for quite a period of time, they were living on Nauru - they have been transferred to the United States and that means there are no longer any children on Nauru at the regional processing location.
There were no children on Manus Island, it was the former government that put children on Manus Island in an inexplicable decision to that that in the first instance.
That was rectified a long time ago.
And so I am very pleased that were are in a position now to say that has been achieved and the only way you can ensure that children don’t go back on Nauru is to ensure that your border protection regime is not compromised and that you do not allow vessels to legally enter Australia with children on board.
And the only way you can do that is maintain the strength of our border protection regime.
That’s what our Government is doing and that’s what Bill Shorten and the Labor Party demonstrated they do not have the ability or conviction or determination to do.
They will just blow over in a hair’s breadth, whether it’s in the people smugglers or indeed from other sections of the community which would have them undermine our border protection.
This will be a very complex case and Australia will make decisions consistent with our national security interests.
Obviously the issue of the children involved is also a very sensitive one.
The children can’t be held responsible for the crimes of their parents.
They are in a very dangerous part of the world and Australia is not in a position to offer any safe passage for people who are in that part of the world.
And that is very concerning for the fact that there are children involved in this and their parents, Khaled Sharrouf in particular who committed despicable crimes, have placed their children in harm’s way.
So look, we will deal with that issue sensitively but we must remember that both parents, including Khaled Sharrouf’s wife, committed crimes being where they were and doing what they were doing.
Well I’m not familiar with the circumstances of that case, Hugh, so I can’t really comment.
Well Australians, whether they’re former Prime Ministers or not, have every right to express the views that they have.
What I have said about this issue is my thoughts remain with all victims of institutional child sexual abuse.
Having, as I said yesterday, led the national apology following the Royal Commission – which I must say, Hugh, is one of I think the outstanding achievements of the ABC in the way that they addressed that issue of institutional child sexual abuse – my thoughts are with them.
Because all of this will be stirring up all of those most horrific and painful of experiences they endured.
And to be honest, that’s what I’m particularly focused on at the moment in my concern for them and how they’re processing all of this.
Having met so many of them through the process of the apology, it just… it really just makes my heart terribly sad to know the pain they will be feeling today.
It just… they just relive it all, and it’s just horrendous.
So to be honest, I’m more concerned about that.
G’day Waleed.
It has been an extraordinary few days and you've just gotten back from New Zealand, meeting with Prime Minister Ardern, you would obviously have a keen sense of what it's like on the ground there.
These events are tectonic, they affect us all.
On Friday I was in Sydney when the first news came through and at that stage it was just very unclear.
We didn't really know what was happening, who it was, except for where it was happening.
Obviously that was deeply distressing; in a mosque.
Then as the news came through - and you get the briefings and it became crystal clear what had occurred - there was just a numbness.
We all experienced it.
You experienced it, we all experienced it as the news came and then the horror came, of the hatred and the ugliness that had led to this.
I don't know if Australians understand Islam very well and that can often lead to fear of things you don't understand.
So by definition that's what it leads to, but that doesn't always translate into extremism, just like any view doesn't necessarily flow into extremism.
Malcolm used to say; “Domestic violence starts with disrespect of women,” -
But not all disrespect of women leads to violence.
There's no doubt that exists in Australia, there's no doubt that exists in Australia but there’s –
But there's no doubt that so many forms of hatred and stereotyping goes on in the Australian community.
I mean my -
Well, we have been tracking through our agencies, this form of extremism.
Now, people use different words, I have said right-wing extremist, others have said white supremacists or white separatists.
It all means the same thing ultimately.
At the end of the day it's just where a view gets taken to an absolute extreme, when you're talking about supremacists and separatists.
Any community can take itself to a point where they engage in a form of fundamentalism, extremism, which is a danger to innocents.
Now this is true in the Christian community, it's true in the Hindu community - in other countries I should stress, I mean we all know of violence that has occurred there - Buddhist communities, Muslim communities.
Where in any of these communities, you allow fundamentalism and extremism to take hold and as a community you don't guard against that, then this is where it ends.
And the great victim is innocents, the great victim is peace.
No, I don't believe the Liberal Party does and I don't believe - I can't speak for the National Party, I’ll let the leader of the Nationals –
No, no I don’t believe so, I don’t believe so.
But I’ll speak for myself -
I think it’s important for all of us – and today is Harmony Day.
Harmony Day is an opportunity for us, I think, to understand difference better.
You know the classic wisdom; “Seek first to understand, before you understood”.
I think that is one of the important lessons of Harmony Day.
The problem I have is that we don't do a lot of ‘seeking to understand first’.
We often jump to conclusions about others.
In politics, I think it's important that we have disagreements, but I wish we could disagree better.
I wish if we did disagree, that we always didn't leap to assuming other people's motives.
I think that's important.
You know, you and I can disagree and you've interviewed me before, when you're in radio and years ago and we've disagreed.
But I think it's really important in Australia if we want a better society, that we've got to disagree better and respect each other more and the motives of others.
Not to leap to prejudiced conclusions about others.
As leader it's my job to ensure that the tone I set, is the right tone.
The tone I have set, you can you can see from my experience Waleed.
I mean you may not be familiar with my experience in this area, let me tell you the story.
When I came in and the Parliament in 2007 in the seat of Cook in the southern part of Sydney, that was not long after the riots there and the revenge attacks that took place soon after.
So I know what it looks like in a community, when things turn very bad and the cycle of violence is allowed to perpetuate.
My predecessor Bruce Baird responded to this working with a wonderful bloke who has become a dear friend of mine Jamal Rifi.
They brought the communities together by taking a whole group of young Muslim people in south-western Sydney and they trained to be lifesavers, particularly in the North Cronulla Surf Club.
Now when I came into Parliament we wanted to keep up this program of bringing those two parts of Sydney together.
Jason Clare, a good friend of mine and a Labor member for that part of Sydney, we decided to take young people from both of our communities and walk the Kokoda Track together, to help us understand and particularly our younger people, these two different types of cultures, what I described as “very different Australian experiences”.
Now since then, Jason I did it two more times, we walked the Sandakan death march together with a similar group and included indigenous group actually from Rob Oakeshott’s electorate at the time.
We did the same thing with the Black Cat Track in 2013 and had some great young Muslim women, there some of whom were working for the AFP and again in 2015.
I wasn't able to go on that one, but I helped organize one we took to Gallipoli.
Now over that period of time, it has been my work in Parliament to try and build these communities together, not apart.
Now that's my form Waleed and my form is to take that experience into my own Party as leader.
The best way for me to address any problem is to lead by my own example and I’ve just said –
Well there were a number of cases there that you've talked about where, you know, I've made comments on those at the time.
I think there are a few in there that I'm not sure you're representing in the right light.
I'll give you a good example.
The comments you've referred to in relation to Pete\swhen he talked about the immigration period in the 1980s.
Now that was a humanitarian intake where there weren't the normal assessments that would be done now.
There were things that were done at that time which the Immigration Department would tell you today, they would have done differently if they'd had the lessons of that period -
No, they learn lessons from all sorts of areas of intake –
I'm simply saying Waleed that what Peter was explaining were some lessons that were learned during a period of what was a fairly tumultuous time in the world –
If your question to me Waleed is this - which I believe it is - do I think that every single statement by any single member of the Liberal Party -
Has always been consistent -
Maybe you might want to rephrase it.
I’ve already –
I already said to you before that no, I don't think the Party has that problem, I don't think the Liberal Party as a total group has that problem.
No, I don't and I don't think the National Party does either.
I didn't support that at the time.
He was a backbencher and remains a backbencher in the Government –
By the LNP, but again, do we want to get bogged down in this or do we want to move on to how we actually make things better?
In terms of the individuals, I talk to all of my members and as I say, I try and lead by example.
My example has been to work with the Muslim community very, very deeply.
One of the hardest things I ever did as a politician was when Jamal rang me and there was a family, the El Baf family - I don't know if you remember the story about the four brothers.
Jamal rang me when I was Immigration Minister and said; “These four boys have left, we think they have gone to the Middle East to fight for ISIS.
” He said; “Is there anything you can do to try and prevent them from getting there?
” I immediately got in touch with what was then the Department of Immigration and Border Protection, but sadly had already gone through clearances and they'd already gone through South East Asia.
Those boys are all dead today to the best of our knowledge, we know two are dead.
But Jamal rang me and said; “I'd like you to come and meet their parents”.
So I did and I sat down with them and I was also there with Tony Abbott's knowledge, who was the Prime Minister at the time.
I just sat there and listened to their grief.
So, I have a keen understanding of what terrorist recruiters can do to destroy families and innocence, again, is the victim.
It doesn't matter whether you're Muslim, it doesn't matter you're Christian; when evil comes it robs and it steals.
So I think the answer is not for us to retreat into tribes and try to herd people into tribes and say; “Well, you've got this problem, you've got that problem.
” I think the answer is to do what I said before; let's try to better understand where we're all coming from, not try to line people up on teams.
Well, let me talk about –
You also said Peter was talking about the comment made by the Greens Senator.
That comment was suggesting that I and Peter Dutton were responsible for the terrorist attacks in Christchurch.
Now, would you find that a reasonable statement to make?
That I personally –
That was the clear implication Waleed.
No sorry, you raised the issue, so let me address it.
Do you think it’s reasonable –
For any Senator to say that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs were responsible for the terrorist attacks in Christchurch?
Well I think –
It’s reasonable that Peter would have found that quite offensive –
In the heat of the moment when people are upset –
Waleed, the other night, you were very emotional and I’m sure you may have said some things about me, that based on our conservations since, you think may have been a bit over the top, about my own motives when it comes to these issues.
Well, you were on the other night and as we discussed today, you implied that Muslims couldn’t feel safe because they had a Prime Minister who somehow had been prejudiced against them.
I don’t believe that’s true.
I don’t think you believe that’s true either.
People say things sometimes –
Well, I can only say anyone who may have talked to a journalist to smear me in that way.
Because there have been a number of members who were at that meeting who have gone on the record to support the fact that it did not happen.
Phillip Ruddock was there and he said it didn't happen.
Tony Abbott was there and he said it didn’t happen.
David Johnson was there and he said it didn't happen.
I mean, I was there and I say it didn’t happen.
No, no hang on –
Hang on –
No, I have to stop you there.
No Waleed, you have said that Andrew Robb said something that he did not.
No.
What Andrew –
I’ll let you finish, I apologise.
No, that’s not true.
Waleed, that is not true.
What is suggested is that I said that we should exploit, exploit concerns about Islam in the community to our political advantage.
No, that –
Andrew Robb –
Do you mind if I finish?
No, I’m sorry, Andrew Robb did not say that I did that.
Yeah, I was the shadow immigration minister at the time and I was very concerned about these issues and the way people were feeling in the community.
I was concerned that we needed to address them, which is what I've been doing inside and outside of the Parliament for the last 10 years of my life.
Yes, to lower them.
Yes, I was acknowledging that there were these fears in the community and that we had to address them, not exploit them.
To actually seek to try and address them.
I have championed that view as a Minister, as a member Parliament for my entire public life –
Because I think we have responsibilities - as you were just asking me to do - that where we are concerned that people would have fears about these things, that we would seek to alleviate those fears.
No, this was just a shadow cabinet meeting.
Talking about policy.
Yes, that's my view and that was my view.
It has always been my view.
No what I'm saying is that I was concerned about those fears in the community and that it has always been my practice - as I've demonstrated to you outside the Parliament and inside the Parliament - to seek to address those.
Why else do you think I would have been working like I have as I explained to you before, why do you think I would be?
That's been my experience and that’s why on Saturday after these horrendous attacks, I went to speak to those at the Lakemba Mosque, I was greeted with hugs and tears.
Do you think that is the act of someone who hasn't been working closely with the Islamic community in Sydney for a long time?
Well can’t you see that what you’re suggesting –
Is at complete odds –
With the experience –
That I’ve been involved in over my last ten years of public life?
Doesn’t it sound odd that that report -
Two unnamed sources, who have never gone public.
Well who?
No, Andrew Robb is not one of those.
And I have.
Waleed let me just say for the record -
I want to rule a line under this issue.
It never happened, I’ve always been deeply concerned about attitudes towards people of Muslim faith in our community.
I entered the Parliament after one of the most horrible scenes that we've seen on our own soil on this issue and set about immediately to try and bring communities together.
I have always acted consistently with that in shadow cabinet, in the Cabinet, by my policy decisions as Minister and in my own personal conduct.
So such a report is so at odds with my experience and actions, that I think that speaks for itself.
We are not going to do any preference deals with One Nation.
Those matters are determined by the Party when we know what the nominations are.
Yeah and we won't do any deals with One Nation -
Well what if Fraser Anning is running candidates?
Well, you tell me -
Well this is the point Waleed, I don't know who is going to nominate.
In the electorate of Longman –
In the electorate of Longman – no, well you’ve raised the issue –
Waleed please let me answer one question.
Oh okay –
I'm just trying to answer your questions.
I was raising the issue –
On the practical issue of Longman –
I am going to wait to see what all the nominations are and in our Party those decisions are made by the Party organisation.
I know the Labor Party wants me to do a preference deal with them.
I won't be doing a deal with the Labor Party or the Greens or anyone else.
The election nominations will be called, we will see the candidates and we will make our decisions at that time.
I’ve just answered the question as to how we're going to conduct ourselves in relation to preferences.
No, I said we’re going to make these decisions at the time nominations close and then we'll apply those decisions at that time as a Party organisation.
I’ve said we're going to make that decision at the time of the nominations closing.
Well, you’ll know when we make that decision at that time.
I'll be consulting with my own Party organisation, I won't be doing it through your program.
Because I'm part of a Party that has a process and that Party listens to a lot of people in it's organisation who are members of our Party.
That is a decision that is actually taken in each state and territory division of the Liberal Party, by the President of that Party, as part of their preferences committee on which I will have representatives.
That is respecting our process.
And I’ll be exercising that at that time.
No, all I’m saying at this stage is that we will never do a preference deal with One Nation and that we will settle those matters at the time of nominations closing, when we know who all the candidates are.
No, it just means what I just said.
We will make those decisions –
Clear at the time of the nominations closing, Waleed.
Well that's only relevant if in the cases that we're talking about, that’s what is known about the actual individuals who may be subject to transfers.
That was the topic of that debate at the time and that's what was said.
Should we ignore the fact that if there are persons who do have those records, or for whom those issues are present, that we should ignore that?
Like it's taboo, you’re not allowed to mention it?
Well no, the bill actually could do that, if they were put in community detention in metropolitan parts of the city, that’s exactly –
No I'm sorry Waleed, the bill didn't do that.
The bill didn't do that.
So for those for whom that is a particular issue, and there is intelligence or information that relates to those individuals who have that as an issue for us, well of course we're going to take the necessary precautions.
Well sorry, we are the Government and we have to implement it.
We know that's exactly what can happen and we can't resist it.
We're implementing that bill right now, it's not ours.
We are taking the advice on how it has to be implemented and we'll be doing that.
No, I think we're not going to sugar-coat to the public the implications of laws passing the Parliament and Waleed, it's important that you don't either.
In your commentary on these things, all journalists I think, have to be careful that they don't create a false impression of the risks that need to be managed.
The only people are described like that, are people that you could make that description of.
Well actually we’re talking about a number.
No, no Waleed, you've got to be honest with people.
If a bill that was put forward and supported by the Labor Party, was going to be creating risks for managing the transfer of people into the community, then I'm not going to tell the Australian people what those risks don't exist.
I'm not going to sugar-coat it.
There are real risks, there are very real risks.
I mean people used to accuse me of this when I was talking about what we needed to do to actually get our borders under control.
They used to accuse me of all sorts of motives.
But I was right, it needed –
My last advice on all of those of whom there were some serious concerns on character issues, I think was over about 50.
Not only those but also people who had serious character assessments –
They were actually published –
We had people with character concerns, over 50 people Waleed –
They were among those 50, that’s true.
So how many rapists – no, let me put this to you Waleed.
How rapists and murderers should be transferred to the Australian community?
And they were wrong, they were wrong Waleed.
There only needs to be one Waleed, that’s my answer.
But they don’t.
They do not Waleed.
I’m sorry, I’m the Prime Minister, I’m responsible for implementing it and I have the full availability of the Attorney General, the Attorney General’s Department, the Department of Home Affairs and their advice to me is, no, we don't have that power.
So I don't know whose advice you're relying on, but I'm sorry, you don't know.
No it's more than one, it's well over that –
I've already told you there's, there's almost 60 actually who were identified as having serious character concerns, that in other circumstances we would never allow to be transferred to Australia.
So that's enough –
Well, I’ve asked you the same question and you’re saying ‘no rapists’.
They exist and they are there –
And those crimes have been committed actually in Papua New Guinea.
There are a number, I don't have the numbers to hand, but this is getting into a semantic discussion.
What I'm saying to you Waleed is this though; don't sugar-coat this stuff.
It doesn't excuse it.
Well I'm afraid mate, sometimes you could be accused of it.
Well you're saying that there was no risk Waleed.
And there was there was risk and you say it didn't exist because the bill didn't allow for it.
I'm telling you that's wrong.
So I was always trying to be honest with the Australian people about the risk.
You mean particularly after Friday?
Well, exactly what I did do.
The first step, call this out for what it was.
Next step, go and sit down with Muslim brothers and sisters that I know and express my deepest and serious condolences and talk about the issues we needed to manage straight away.
On Sunday, I went to the Coptic Church in Arncliffe in Sydney, a community no stranger to shootings in churches, who understand probably more than most how deeply these things can affect communities.
I went there and spoke there, prayed there with my family.
On Monday, I went to the Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce here in Melbourne and I gave a speech which talked about the need for Australians to see each other as individuals, hot herded into particular groups.
That we could actually respect each other and the motives that sit behind each and every individual and not make assumptions about people based on what other people have said.
That we need to disagree better, not necessarily agree more.
That we didn't allow conflict in debate to become more sport than an entertainment, but that we were able to get behind that and actually have real community-building initiatives which are exactly the type of initiatives I announced on Wednesday of this week.
Initiative Together for Humanity, which we put $2.
5 million in, initiatives like the one we announced today with Bachar Houli down there at Richmond at Punt Road.
These types of programs which I've been supporting and my Government has been funding for years now.
That's what we need to do.
Well I have.
So again Waleed, look to the experience that I've laid out for you tonight and don't prejudge me.
That's my form Waleed.
I'm happy to call out people, as others have sought to call me out on things, I'm not shy about doing these sorts of things.
I'm not shy about doing these sorts of things because I know what my values are and I know what I have done in my life, to try and build these bridges between communities.
When I became Prime Minister I said I want to do three things; I wanted to keep the economy strong - because if you don't have a job you don't have a lot of choices.
If the economy is not strong you can't pay for service like hospitals and schools.
Well I look forward to your support and we will be doing it.
Australia is the best place in the world to live and the future of our country depends so much on our economy.
Why am I saying that today?
Because the announcement I am making today, to invest almost half a billion dollars in our medical infrastructure, in our cancer-fighting infrastructure and our health infrastructure here today is made possible because of the strong economy and the Budget management that we’re pursuing.
Today I’ve had the chance to talk to Lauren and to Finn and many other patients and it is a devastating prognosis that often attends the diagnosis of cancer.
As difficult as all of that is, to see the courage and the hope on the faces of the patients I've met today as a result of what's happening here at Peter Mac, I think is an absolute tribute to everybody who works here, everybody who researches here, everybody who contributes, whether through the Foundation or other means, the volunteers and others who come here and give people hope.
Melbourne is leading Australia's fight against cancer through facilities such as this.
They're leading Australia's fight in the world today and that is happening right here at the Peter Mac Centre.
So today we are making a series of announcements which will mean that, for Australians who are diagnosed with cancer, the one thankful thing there is in that, is that they can fight it here in Australia, because of the services and the infrastructure and the medical professionals and the treatments that are available in this country, because of the strength of our society and the strength and prosperity of our country.
So today we are making a series of announcements; $80 million to establish the Peter McCallum Cancer Centre National Centre of Excellence in Cellular Immunotherapy.
This is groundbreaking work that is happening here.
This will enable this centre to take its treatment and capability from its current level, to a much greater scale.
To reach out and touch the lives of just so many more Australians.
I've met Australians being treated here today from Tasmania, from South Australia, from my home town in Sydney, from here in Melbourne.
This is a centre for all Australia and this is why our investment here today is for all Australians.
But it is very much a recognition of Melbourne leading not just here but around the world in what is taking place here.
Very much, if you like, the Boston of the Southern Hemisphere is what we're seeing right here in Melbourne.
As a Government, we are investing here.
We are doubling down here.
We are backing this centre in and everyone who works here, with this significant investment of $80 million further today.
Now, Greg will take you through more of the details of our announcement, which in total funding of some $116 million to the cancer research and treatment programs here, new hospital infrastructure worth some $152 million, including new emergency departments for families and children worth $40 million, focusing particularly on pediatrics.
I will ask Dr Katie Allen, our candidate for Higgins to speak more about that as Greg will.
Medical research into medicines and treatment of some $112 million.
More mental health care, especially for young people, some $16 million and more MRI units for patients when and where they need them, of some $100 million.
This is what you can do when you manage an economy well and we prosper as a country.
This is how we can invest the dividend of a strong economy, back into the health and wellbeing of all Australians and recognise the compassion and the brilliance of the people who work here to change lives and give so many Australians hope.
It is a great privilege to be here today to be making this announcement a Government committed to the healthcare of all Australians.
The person who has made this possible, in leading this announcement today, is Greg Hunt.
Greg Hunt is the best Health Minister a Coalition Government has ever had, his leadership on these issues, his compassion and his dedication to seeing these projects through has never been matched, in my view.
We've had a lot of good Health Ministers, I'm pleased to say, but none better than Greg Hunt.
I want to commend him for the work that he's done and invite him to make some remarks.
Thank you, Greg.
Thank you Dr Allen.
So there it is, our Victorian health plan.
Well done Greg in bringing this together.
We’re happy to take questions on this, I also want to thank the Victorian Government for their work, particularly on working together on those emergency department investments.
These are things that we’ve been working closely together on.
I think people in Victoria just simply want to see us get on with the job, working closely with the State Government here and that’s exactly what we’re doing with this Victorian health plan.
So let’s take questions on that, particularly while we have the specialists and researchers and the clinical staff who are here on what we’ve announced today.
Then of course we can move to other topics and we might excuse our partners, who don’t need to be here for that part of the press conference.
Any other questions on this topic?
I know it was a very comprehensive presentation and I know you’re all terribly excited about all the detail, it’s all set out in the document here which will be circulated to you and you can get further information from that.
I’m sure those here at Peter Mac Centre and others will be happy to assist with any other inquiries.
I want to thank them – if there are no other questions - ?
Well, I’m always very happy to be here.
I’m continuing my education on the AFL, which I always enjoy and you don’t have to twist my arm to get me to a sporting contest.
There’s no shortage of those here in Melbourne and it’s wonderful to be back here today, you're right.
Last Friday I was here, announcing the fast rail project to Geelong, we have been announcing congestion-busting projects.
But today this is very special; to be able to be announcing this, this is a half a billion dollar investment in the future of Victoria's healthcare.
But more than that, to ensure that Melbourne continues to lead the world in the fight against cancer.
Just before we go to politics, I'm going to thank everybody here today.
Well done, good on you Finn.
Finn's a New South Welshman, he's happy with the result too on the weekend.
I certainly was.
Look, every part of the country matters.
Melbourne matters, Bunbury matters, Townsville matters, Alice Springs matters.
The whole country is what our Government is about ensuring is stronger.
Both a stronger economy, which means we can invest in these essential services that Australians rely on, keeping Australians safe and, of course, keeping Australians together, whether it's in our workplaces, or more broadly in our communities.
So, everywhere matters.
Well, when I have gone to the Governor-General, then people will know what day the election will be held on.
There are several dates it can be held on and that's one of them.
Well, the Budget will be on Tuesday week, tomorrow week.
It will be the first surplus Budget that has been handed down in this country since we had a Coalition Victorian Treasurer in Peter Costello 12 years ago.
This demonstrates the work that has had to be done over the last five and a half years to get the Budget back into balance.
You vote Labor once, you pay for it for more than a decade.
That is what happened back in 2007.
Here we are in 2019.
That's how long it has taken to get the Budget back into balance, to overcome the serious economic damage and fiscal damage that was done to our Budget last time Labor was in office.
I can assure the people of Australia that I'm always for them earning more and keeping more of what they earn.
My record is lowering taxes for Australians.
We currently have $144 billion worth of tax relief for all working Australians in this country.
And wherever I get the opportunity to give Australians further tax relief, I never miss the opportunity.
This investment we're making today is going to save people's lives.
The National Party and the Liberal Party work closely together in coalition.
We work constructively on all of these issues and we will continue to work constructively to ensure that Australia has a sustainable and reliable energy future.
What we are not hearing from the Labor Party is how they are going to meet their emissions reduction targets.
I mean the Labor Party has a 4\sper cent emissions reduction target.
Bill Shorten can't even answer two basic questions; will he use carbon credit carry forward?
Because Australia has over achieved, particularly stemming from Greg's work when he was Minister for the Environment, we had a 1.
1 billion carbon abatement turnaround.
We went from a deficit of over 700 million tonnes to a surplus of 369 million tonnes on our Kyoto 2020 target.
We’ll be carrying that forward over to our 2030 commitment.
Bill Shorten can't that question; will he use the credits that our Government has earned to meet that target?
And will he be using taxpayer money to buy foreign carbon credits from overseas?
He can't even answer the two most basic questions when it comes to carbon abatement.
But the big one, even more significant than that is his policies - on the best-case scenario - will cost Australians $9,000 a year.
That's with taxes on their electricity, taxes even on hamburgers when it comes to the impact on the agricultural sector.
Bill Shorten needs to come clean.
He's been Leader of the Opposition for five and a half years and he still can't tell you how he is going to meet his reckless emission target, which will cost Australian families dearly, whether it’s at the petrol pump, in takeout or in paying the household electricity bills.
We'll continue to work constructively with the National Party, because we are part of the one government and we always come to resolutions on important issues for Australia's future, including on that.
Well, I'm working with the Victorian Government and I welcome Michael O'Brien's support as well.
At the moment, I'm delivering infrastructure with Daniel Andrews and here today we're delivering pediatric emergency departments with Daniel Andrews.
I think that people in Victoria just expect the Premier and the Prime Minister to work together.
I notice when I was here the other week, they called us travel buddies when it came to the Melbourne Airport link.
Well, that’s true, I'm very happy to work with Dan Andrews on the infrastructure and the health services that Australian need here in Victoria.
I think we've demonstrate add very productive working relationship and I thank him for that.
I've already answered that question in an extensive interview last week.
We're not doing any preference deals.
Our Party has its process for doing determining those issues at the time of nominations closing.
Thanks very much.
G’day Neil, good to be with you.
I’m sorry we couldn’t catch up the other day.
Well I'm not commenting on where it might come from other than to say the sophistication, as I said in the Parliament yesterday, has led agencies to advise that this is a state actor but I'm not..
Well it means it’s a government.
But we're not in any position to attribute that to any particular nation.
We're not in a position to do that.
No what I'm saying is you don't go and make those claims wildly.
I'm not suggesting you are.
So we don't have any information, I don't have any information that would enable me to make that claim.
I've said what I've said, Neil.
That's a very specific wording I've used.
Well it's not up to me to have suspicions and share them, it's up to me to to speak to the facts as we know them and what we can be very confident of.
Well I'm not responsible for the media.
We work constructively with China.
I've met wit\sas well as the President and we have a very important relationship with China and I'm very positive about particularly the economic growth of China.
I mean, there's some suggestion that Western countries don't want to see and want to frustrate China's growth.
We don't share that view.
We want to see China do well.
I've just been down in Melbourne recently for, you know, Chinese New Year celebrations.
I think this is one of the key points - we celebrate their prosperity.
And you know we've got one point two million Australians of Chinese heritage in Australia.
And we celebrate those links and they’re positive.
I'm not going to get into a discussion on security matters.
Well again, whatever we might say would be a matter that I would consult with the National Security Committee of Cabinet.
Well yesterday Alastair MacGibbon I think sort of went into that and it's not clear what the precise purpose of this is at this stage.
But those investigations continue and there is no suggestion that there is any, any at this point, any greater access to information\sBut these things are concerning, as I said yesterday.
Well I mean, people can make all sorts of suppositions.
But I've just deal with the information that I have.
No, and I said that.
There's no evidence to suggest that at this point.
Well that’s supposition, that’s speculation.
And what I said in the Parliament yesterday… see, as Prime Minister I've got to stay on the facts
The facts say that there is there is no evidence of that.
But clearly one of the general areas of risk, not specific to what I'm, you know, I've identified in the Parliament yesterday is that we need to make sure Australia is protected from this.
This is why we introduced the foreign interference laws into the Parliament and.
Well we did and have been.
The political parties do this under their own steam, just like any company or business does.
And that's why all all businesses, all political organizations.
You know, even 3AW’s website and systems.
I mean, everybody is responsible for their own security on their own sites just like they are for protecting their own home.
That's not clear.
I've heard that being suggested, but there's nothing to suggest, at least in front of me, that has occurred.
Well anything's possible but that doesn’t mean it happened.
Well what Labor did last week was weaken them.
Well it's not quite clear what they've done and how that will play out.
I think what's happened in Nauru is a good example of what happens and how Labor didn’t think through what playing around with border protection laws will do.
I mean, there are consequences.
Well I'm still getting reports in of exactly what they've decided to do and what the legal force of that is\sBut look that's a matter for them and it's a reminder that it's their country.
What Labor did was weaken our border protection.
Well what Nauru has indeed done and, that it is legally able to be done, well we’ll make our assessment on that.
But there's no leave pass here for Labor.
Labor weakened the border protection laws last week wilfully, wilfully.
They were always at risk of coming.
That never changes.
Of course there is.
There's always that.
When you weaken the border protection laws, as was said last night by Mike Pezzullo the Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs, that always increases risk.
Now I have taken actions on the advice of these agencies, particularly Home Affairs, to take a number of step which has included the reopening of Christmas Island, which was recommend to us by the Secretary of Home Affair.
And to strengthen what we were doing with Operation Sovereign Borders and that included everything from our strategic communications through to posturing in terms of where our assets are and what they're doing and that's what we’ve done\sWe had to strengthen it because Labor weakened it.
They were always not going to accept everybody, that's their own.
Well for reasons that would suggest that they weren't welcome in the United States because they'd be concerned about who they were.
They’re matters for the US and not for me to comment on.
Well not under our laws, but they can under Labor's.
That’s exactly right and this is the point we're making.
Because in a lot of these cases, these people they won't have serious criminal convictions.
But they may well be facing charges for such convictions and not have been sentenced and what Labor did to the laws means there is no ability for us to stop those transfers.
The other group, Neil, is the group that have been found not to be refugees.
So they're there because they refused to go home.
They're not refugees, they’re living in the community in Nauru and they can also be brought to Australia where they can, you know, engage the court process and play the system like always happens.
Oh no, we’re good, we’re good.
Well you know I'll be taking that up with Border Force.
There had been a review into these matters internally.
But it was my job to get him home and I'm very pleased that Hakeem has come home, and it was great to meet him and his wife recently in Canberra.
No I don't..
I think that is actually a bit of a leap, Neil.
There are many other ways that Hakeem would have been kept in (inaudible) other than just that incident.
But I'm not suggesting that incident was not something that needs to be addressed.
But it would be wrong to assume that other than for that that wouldn't have occurred.
I don't think that’s correct.
Well that is not what happened.
Well no he didn't.
He thought he was paying for them.
He has paid.
Because he wasn't aware.
He wasn't aware.
No that's the statement that he's made and he had nothing to do with the issuing of the contract, by the way, that had been issued prior and Ministers aren’t involved in those decisions.
There's a clear separation that minister… any suggestion that the two were linked would be complete rubbish.
Well that's why he's cleaned it up.
No I think that's a bit unfair to put it in those terms.
There was that oversight which had been identified and he fixed it up.
I mean what more can he do?
But he didn't take free tickets in the first place.
He was fully… they were going to bill him and he didn’t get billed and that was drawn to his attention he paid the bill.
That’s not true.
They were written to and they were asked to respond which they did and they provided responses and the police have not sought any further statement from them.
So they have cooperated.
They provided a response and the police have accepted that response and they haven't sought any I'm advised, any further statement.
Well I'm just saying that cooperate with the investigation and nothing's been sought from them.
And remember what this is about.
This is about the alleged…
Misuse of union funds by the AWU, Bill Shorten’s union.
There was a raid because the police believe they were destroying evidence that may have suggested that the Shorten’s union was sending money, allegedly, to GetUp!
and even to his own benefit.
So that's what this is about.
So Bill Shorten should cooperate and actually provide the minutes of meetings and the other things that are necessary for the police to do their investigation.
I think he's the one with the questions to answer and obviously to be cooperating.
They should, you’re dead right Neil.
People should cooperate with police investigations and my Ministers have.
I will continue to work with the Victorian government.
Let's just be very clear.
What there is, is a contingent liability in in the Budget.
What does that mean?
That means if the state government had chosen to trigger investment in the East West Link, then the Commonwealth would have raised that money to support that project.
So it's not like there's three billion dollars sitting actually there to spend on the road.
That money would have to be added to the bottom line of the Budget and that would have to be allocated, so it would have to be new money.
But I can tell you, we've already put in the last Budget there was over seven billion dollars we invested in Victorian infrastructure, we’re investing in busting infrastructure all over Melbourne and I'm keen to do more and I'm keen to work with the Victorian Government to achieve that.
And we've got a Budget coming up in April and we'll have a bit more to say that then.
Look all I've been doing Neil is , showing Australians what our record is on national security, on the economy and that's what guarantees essential services.
People I'm finding when I when I'm relating this to them, are responding well.
I think they're focusing very much on the future and what it all means for them.
I think, you know, the Canberra Bubble and all the noise here which people go on to, they're telling me very clearly that they're not interested in, there interested in what's going ahead in the future to the extent that is being well received, I welcome it.
Of course.
I mean, I didn't take the job on to, you know, to do anything else but that.
I took the job one because I believed it was essential that the Liberal and National parties will return to this next election because the Labor Party will change it all.
The retirees tax, the housing taxes, busting the borders - all of this, Labor will change it all.
Because our party resolved that last year.
An elected Liberal Prime Minister will now have the security of that arrangement over the next term.
That's what we saw last year.
I'm not contemplating that situation.
I'm contemplating being re-elected and ensuring that we continue to keep Australia safe, secure borders, and keep our economy strong.
Not in my mind.
I’m dealing with the reality.
You know me, Neil.
I’ll leave nothing on the field.
Oh a big smiley face, mate.
A big smiley face.
You know me, I’m that cheery.
How about you?
I'd love to know what yours is.
Good on you Neil, cheers mate.
G’day Ben.
That’s alright, Tony was making a lot of sense there, I didn’t want to interrupt him.
Well it is.
He hasn’t got the ticker for it when it comes to this stuff.
I mean when it comes to national security, you don’t trade in it, it’s an area of pure conviction, you do things because you believe it.
You don’t sort of flip and flop, which he has done here.
It’s very similar to what happened with Kim Beazley all those years ago and John Howard.
It’s almost like a rerun and this is the great problem I have with Labor; they can never, ever, ever learn the lesson.
They think they can fiddle with this stuff, just like they did when they got rid of temporary protection visas in 2008 and now the boats come.
They think; “Oh, it won’t make any difference.
That is the great risk we’re now facing.
I’m going to do everything to make sure that doesn’t happen and the only thing standing between a boat and Australia is me and Peter Dutton and our Government.
They know our resolve.
But if we were not there, I can guarantee you they’d be coming thick and fast, that’s what would happen.
Now if one comes, it will be the result of this weakening.
That doesn’t surprise me at all, because what they look for is a change of policy.
Now, we haven’t changed our policy, but what the Parliament has done is to force one upon us.
That’s just how the people smugglers work.
See all these journalists down here in Canberra, in the bubble, they think all these little nuances matter - and the Labor Party think it - to the people smugglers.
They just turn up to someone sitting up there in Indonesia and they say: “Guess what, they changed the laws down there in Australia, you can get on a boat now.
Let’s go” that’s what they do.
They think they’re all sort of glued to listening to journalists down here in Canberra, explaining the intricacies of these things.
It’s nonsense.
They’re criminals.
That’s what criminals do, they lie.
I could never confirm that one way or the other Ben, because that’s intelligence that I receive as Prime Minister.
So I can’t comment on that for obvious reasons, but what my job is, is to make sure that beast doesn’t wake up.
I can tell you, Bill has given it a big poke, that’s what he has done.
He’s done it willfully and he’s done it because he can’t stand up to the far left of his own Party.
I mean you’ve got Tanya Plibersek running immigration and border protection for the Labor Party now.
Just picture this for me; Bill Shorten chairing the National Security Committee with Tanya Plibersek sitting alongside him and whoever else they’ve got in there - and they are going to decide whether boats get turned back?
I mean what they’ve done is, they’ve already said they’re going to give permanent visas to people who arrive illegally by boat, enter Australia illegally.
They’ve already said that.
They’re going to get rid of what we put back in place.
They’ve now basically trashed offshore processing as we know it and they’re telling the Australian people, “Oh trust us, we’ll turn boats back.
” Give me a break.
Bill Shorten does not have the ticker or the mettle for that and he demonstrated that in the Parliament yesterday and if he ever tells anyone, “Oh the Coalition and us, we have the same border protection policy.
” That’s complete guff.
We don’t.
He doesn’t have the strength for it, he doesn’t have the policies for it, he doesn’t have a clue about it.
That’s exactly what happens, that’s exactly what happens.
So look, this is why they play with this stuff thinking they can appease people in their own party.
I mean, if Bill Shorten had any ticker he would have stood up to them and said; “No, no, we need to have strong borders.
We said that the Coalition had got it right and that we’d stuffed it up and that we can never go back there.
” That’s what he should have said.
But he didn’t do that.
He just rolled over.
This bloke is seriously, seriously weak.
I remember the debates.
I remember when that boat crashed up on the jagged rocks of Christmas Island.
I remember the debates in the Parliament when the Labor members came in and they cried in the Parliament.
The tears have run dry because their memories have gone.
That’s what’s happened.
They have not learned the lessons from those tragic events and they are doomed to repeat them if they’re elected.
Absolutely.
I mean, I know what works.
I know from bitter and difficult experience what works.
Because I lived it and I did it with Tony and Peter who has done it since and we’re part of that team.
And we’re going to do everything we can to make sure one doesn’t come.
If one does come, it’s on Bill’s head and if one doesn’t come, I can assure you it’s because they know that Peter and I and Tony, we’re all still here and we’re going to do everything we can to stop them.
Well, there are many privileges to being Prime Minister but the greatest of those is to meet Australians when they’re facing some of their greatest challenges and seeing their true mettle.
This is on display here again today in Townsville.
Yesterday I had the opportunity to see it down in Tasmania and today I see exactly the same spirit, exactly the same courage, exactly the same care and compassion for each other.
It is a great privilege to see this in our country.
It is who we are and I want to thank everyone here in Townsville for all the incredible work they’re doing.
We are here at the Ignatius College evacuation centre, run by the Red Cross.
I want to thank the Red Cross for the tremendous work they've been doing here.
I'm joined, of course, by Linda Reynolds the Assistant Minister, by Phillip Thompson, the LNP candidate here in Herbert who has been out there filling bags, helping people, getting them off roofs and being part of the general effort just as a member of the community and former Defence Force person here in Townsville.
We've got George here as well, as you know, our local member and Ian Macdonald who has been here for 30 years in Townsville.
I'm most glad that both Ian and George can join me here today as we've gone around and have been getting our briefings.
As the waters recede here and we start to move from the response phase to the recovery phase, there will be big shocks for the community.
As we've seen this morning, as they return to their homes, as they assess the damage to their homes; yes, there’s the physical loss, but there is also the mental shock and just coming to terms with it.
We saw that firsthand this morning.
I'm pleased that we were able to provide some comfort, but I really want to thank the Defence Forces and emergency services personnel, QPOL and everybody for the work they’re doing here.
The gratitude from the people from the surrounding areas is sensational and it comes naturally, because they've seen what people have done.
I mean to hear stories of how people were evacuated in the middle of the night - floodwaters, dark, with kids - the fact that we've had in that, the loss of life, I'm aware of a couple of reports which aren’t confirmed, but the fact that people are safe today here in Townsville I think is an extraordinary achievement and is something that I think the people of Townsville can pat themselves on the back on.
They've held together and they've kept each other safe.
As you go through evacuation centre here and you talk to people in other places, the homes that they've been put up in, there is going to be a lot more of that.
Over the next few weeks there is going to be a lot more of that.
On Monday as you know, here in Townsville I announced that the emergency disaster payment was available straight away.
That's as of Monday and the disaster allowance also kicked in from Monday.
I will ask Linda to talk a about it more about that.
So for those eligible for those payments - and there will be a large number here in Townsville - I would encourage them to get in touch with Human Services, Centrelink, to make sure they're accessing those immediate payments.
There will be tens of millions spent here in Townsville to support the local community get back up on their feet, just in those cash assistance payments alone, income support payments.
Then of course there is the work that will be done, Category 3 assistance.
I understand the Premier has announced that she is requesting that, in her statement at a media conference just a few minutes ago.
Of course we’re happy to provide that.
Every request that has been made of us, our answer is; “Yes and quickly”.
We also initiated last night, I gave the instruction for the Defence Forces to support airlifts.
There is one that will be getting off the ground very soon and that is going into Cairns.
We need those shelves stocked and to the extent that the grocers and the food retailers need further support, that will be available to them to make sure we keep the shelves stocked and that people can have the basic necessities looked after.
So it is a matter of thanking all of those who have planned, who have prepared.
I mean, here alone in Townsville, about 5,500 serving men and women and they’re serving their own local community right now.
They are out there, many of whom - hundreds of them - their own homes are affected and they have been out there helping others.
I think that's a tribute to our serving men and women, but to all of those who are putting in at the moment, on behalf of a very grateful nation, thank you for being great Australians.
Linda, why don’t you talk a bit more about those payments and the immediate next step?
Thank you, Linda and good on you 3rd Brigade, very proud of you, very proud.
Insurance companies as well, they will be stepping up.
I will be expecting them to step up and that's what I believe they will do.
We will make sure that they do so, but I have no reason to think that they won't.
So we will be looking for them to be here and doing what you’d expect of them in these circumstances as well.
So, happy to take some questions on the issues here and then as usual happy once we've done that to extend to other matters of the day.
Look, it was frankly quite overwhelming.
I think people are in shock.
I think the kids are amazingly resilient, but for mums and dads as they look at their kids and they think about, you know, just how tight things got trying to get out the other night and I think they are very grateful that - while there have been property losses and damage - they just look at each other and say: "Thank goodness we've got each other.
" You can replace things, but you can't replace loved ones.
But the real shock the community we were in this morning.
Some people hadn't been there that long, you know, it’s a lot of young families, they've worked so hard to get themselves into these homes.
To see them just damaged so badly, it must just be heartbreaking and it clearly was.
So to provide some comfort, of course, that was our pleasure to do today, but the real work is to make sure that they can get through the clean-up and rebuild their lives.
We know that's what's happens, it's just going to be tough.
It’s going to be tough for a while.
There are a lot of not-for-profits who can help with that, too.
Look, I'm not going to get into those issues today.
I mean I'm here today to lend my support and the country's support to the people of Townsville.
With all natural disasters, there is always work that is done following that, to learn the lessons and they are really matters for the State Government and the local authorities, I think, to determine.
I'm sure they will work through those issue.
Right now, my priority is making sure we get the emergency assistance payments to people.
That people know that they are there and that they can take advantage of those and that can help them deal with the most immediate needs that they have today.
Well, last time I was here I was announcing $100 billion for water infrastructure here in Townsville.
So there’s been no shortage of our commitment to infrastructure here in North Queensland.
We have been investing heavily here and we will continue to do that.
I know Phil Thompson has been a great advocate for that and we’re happy to back him and George and Ian in on those projects.
So I think our record here speaks for itself on those things.
Well lessons will be taken from these events and there is a State responsibility here as well.
We will work with state governments, but our commitment in the hundreds of millions that we've committed here in North Queensland and more, I think speaks for itself.
Well, I think I've answered your question.
George, you want to comment?
Any others?
We can have a one-on-one interview, but I’m happy to share it around a bit.
Okay let's stay on Townsville, we are in Townsville.
My thinking right now is about the people of Townsville and making sure they get the emergency support they need.
I'm not engaging in broader policy debates today, I'm engaging in today is the needs of people here on the ground, people in evacuation centres, with some trepidation going back into their homes and finding what they're going to find.
That's what I'm focused on today, not politics.
If you’d like to move to other issues, we can do that.
I've set out what we propose to do.
I won't compromise our border protection system.
If the Labor Party want to support the Phelps bill and the boats start again, it's on their head.
We are going to take action on all 76 recommendations coming from the Royal Commission.
I want to commend the Treasurer and his team for ensuring that the Government was able to put out a full response to the Royal Commission's report which we did over the weekend and took that through the normal process.
That means that markets both had certainty yesterday and today, I should say, which has been very important.
We've been taking action when it comes to the financial sector now for years.
The Banking Executive Accountability Regime, the Australian Financial Complaints Authority, $176 million extra for resources for enforcement and now we’re moving forward on the compensation schemes and through the industry to ensure that people get their right of hearing when it comes to the matters they are concerned about.
They are important recommendations.
We've considered them carefully.
We’re taking action on all 76.
The Labor Party might want to engage in all sorts of politics on this.
We are just getting on with it, because we've been getting on with it for years now.
In fact, our actions have already gone beyond what the royal commission has actually recommended, because we've been taking action on this issue for years.
I’d just refer to what I said to you last year, I expressed last year my own regret as Treasurer when it came to being very focused on the issues of financial system stability, but I expressed my own regret at some of the human factors that needed greater consideration in terms of calling the Royal Commission.
But let me be frank; I called the Royal Commission.
I introduced the Banking Executive Accountability Regime.
We introduced the Australian Financial Complaints Authority.
We introduced the additional resources and support for ASIC.
We acted on the Financial Systems Inquiry that we implemented when we came to Government in 2013.
As a government, we have been taking action on this issue from the day we were first elected.
Labor were in Government for 6 years; Storm Financial, financial crisis after financial crisis.
Bill Shorten was the Financial Services Minister for goodness sake.
Did he call a Royal Commission then?
No.
Did he take action then?
No.
Our government has taken action from the day we were elected on these issues.
I expressed my regret last year and I meant it, but we just got on with it.
Australians know it's about the action that you take, so I initiated the Royal Commission.
I've responded to the Royal Commission as Prime Minister, with the Treasurer and our entire team.
We are taking action on all 76 recommendations.
I refer you to my comments last year, I said I regretted that last year.
As Treasurer you’re always going to be focused and you are going to be careful about what the potential impacts are on a financial system on which everybody's livelihoods depend.
Your mortgage, your loan, everything goes through the financial system.
I was being very careful.
You could accuse me of being overly cautious and I was concerned in particular about what it would mean for credit restrictions in the economy and how that could slow the economy down.
Now we know that that has been one of the things that actually has happened.
That has impacted on the economy.
But we've called it, we've done it, it was done, I think in a very timely and thorough way and I want to thank particularly Justice Hayne and all of his team for the very thorough job that they did.
Over 10,000 cases, submissions that they carefully considered which have informed the recommendations that they've put forward.
So we've just got on with it.
The politics of this - who cares?
It’s not about the politics, it’s about those who are impacted by the egregious behaviour of the banks and the policies of those banks.
They’re the ones who the Royal Commissioner has called out and he in particular has said - just as I did when the Laker Inquiry came down from APRA when I was Treasurer - he called out the boards of those banks, the boards of these big public companies and he has laid the blame fairly at their feet.
That’s exactly where it should be.
I don’t believe there is a conflict of interest, I mean I called a Royal Commission on the banks.
I think that speaks for itself.
I also introduced the bank levy you might remember.
They didn’t like that too much either.
That would be a false impression.
I mean the fact that I instituted the bank levy I think shows very clearly that on every occasion I’ve always acted on behalf of the Australian customer.
What we’re going to be very careful of as we take action on all of these 76 recommendations is that we’re going to be very careful we don’t unwittingly put even more power in the hands of the banks.
Yeah it was a difficult period coming into the back end of the year and you know I want to see the economy strengthen.
But that’s a reminder of the tough headwinds we’re facing.
It’s a reminder of why you need people who know what they’re doing when it comes to managing a Budget and ensuring that we have good economic policies in place.
I mean at the beginning of last week I was up here in Queensland again and I was down in Brisbane.
I released the second iteration of our economic plan; getting taxes down, supporting small and family businesses, investing in the infrastructure that Australians need, our defence procurement policies, expanding our markets.
All of this is designed to ensure that our economy is more resilience and stronger.
You know, when you’ve got a stronger economy, it means you can turn up here and ay we’re going to spend tens of millions providing disaster recovery.
I cannot allow it to be said that the Government will not to everything and pay every bill to support people here in Townsville or in Tasmania.
There can be no suggestion by anyone that the Commonwealth is not doing everything that we should be doing and I’d say even more.
My plan is not to get in the way, my plan is to be here, show my support as I’ve done today and then get out of their hair and allow them to get back to what they’re doing.
My team here will remain and they’ll continue to do things here in North Queensland but my purpose with coming today and It’s just today to show my support for the people of Townsville, just as I did for the people of Tasmania, particularly down in the Huon Valley.
That’s why I’ve been here to see things firsthand.
So as we go back to Parliament next week and as my Cabinet meets and as Ian and George in particular and Phil and Linda report back to us on further steps that we might take, I’ve seen it for myself.
Australia has always, where people have come through the right method and made their applications for asylum in Australia, we are one of the most generous countries in the world.
But we do insist that people go through a proper process for doing that and we’ll always insist on those proper processes.
But you know, Australians, we’ve had the Women at Risk programme and I increased the numbers in the Women at Risk programme when I was Minister many years ago.
That means thousands and thousands and thousands of women have come to Australia under that programme and I’m very pleased that as a Government, that’s been one of our real achievements.
We have supported more women at risk through our refugee and humanitarian programme than previous governments.
We upped the intake.
We made sure we’ve been able to respond to that and we’ll continue to do that.
Just recently in fact David Coleman further increased that intake for the Women at Risk programme.
It’s been one of our most successful components of our refugee and humanitarian programme.
Well they can apply for asylum.
Well I haven’t seen that report, I was flying up here last night so I haven’t seen the report.
But people can apply.
It hasn’t been established to me that it is what’s happening.
I’ve already responded to that.
Well you know Commissioner Hayne was pretty sharp in his assessment and I think that gives them a lot to reflect on.
I wouldn’t be so bold as to suggest, but I think Commissioner Hayne was pretty sharp.
I’m not a commentator.
What I know is Greg Hunt has been serving his community since 2001 and he’s done an extraordinary job.
He’s a great local member and he’s a fantastic Minister and I’m so pleased to have him in my team and that’s why he’ll be back as part of my team after the next election.
It’s our intention to go to that election and to ensure that Australia can have the strong economy that it needs for the next decade.
Now you don’t become a resilient nation by making your economy weaker.
The Labor Party wants to put $200 billion worth of extra taxes on the economy.
That will just drag our economy down.
Self-funded retirees, all retirees, are not exempt.
The arrogance that they have shown towards those retirees – and they’re here experiencing floods in Townsville – and they’ve got a $5 billion tax coming their way from Bill Shorten.
The way that they have just arrogantly dismissed those people’s concerns I think speaks volumes.
If they’re this arrogant to you before an election, imagine what Bill Shorten would be like if he actually won one.
He thinks he’s already got it in the bag.
Great to be back Leigh.
No, Leigh, I mean, just as well I’m a fighter when you listen to what you’ve just relayed out there which is I think is a particularly pessimistic way to look at things.
I’m not looking at things like that at all.
What I’ve announced today is that we’ve got a goal, a pledge in fact of one and a quarter million new jobs and that’s not a vague promise because we’ve already delivered 1.
2 million jobs as a government since we were first elected so that’s what I’m focussed on; a stronger economy to guarantee the essentials that Australians rely on.
That’s our record as a government, a good strong policy record and a clear plan that I announced today to take us into the future.
Not a future with higher taxes but a future of a stronger economy which Australians need.
No that’s actually not true, Leigh, I mean doing what we’ve pledged today on jobs would actually not be at the peak rate of jobs growth that we’ve achieved over the last couple of years so I think that-
No, no not at all, Leigh.
One of the marks of our economic management is that we’ve always exceeded expectations.
One of the reasons that as Treasurer I was able to ensure that we maintained our AAA credit rating is I said we would hit a surplus in 2021, well we’re going to hit it in 19/20.
Well that was last year, Leigh, and what we’re focussed on is the plan we’re taking to the next election.
It’s a plan based on our policy successes as a-
…government over the last five, I know your point is-
Your point is about politics-
My break over the summer involved talking to people who were sharing with me about their need for having their job secure, being able to get home in time to spend time with their families which is why today I announced another $240 million going into urban congestion busting projects here in South East Queensland and that’s what we’re focussed on; the things that actually improve people’s lives.
We’ve got a great track record of delivering on infrastructure because people can see the earth machine, moving machinery on sites now.
We’ve got a great record on tax cuts because we’ve passed that through the Parliament with legislation.
We’ve got a great track record on bringing the budget back to surplus because we will have the first surplus achieved by a government in 12 years when Josh brings that down on the 2nd April this year.
So that’s our policy record.
What you’re talking about is politics.
That’s a different thing.
No what I said today is my goal is to see that debt gone, net debt gone by 2030.
Now the decisions that made in the next three years in the budget will determine what happens with that budget over the next ten years.
How do I know that?
When Labor last came in 2007 the decisions they took in their first term actually led to the debt position we are in today.
So no it’s not fantasy, it’s fair dinkum\sThe decisions that are taken and in the next budget, the budget after that, the budget after that will determine the debt trajectory of our nation and the tax trajectory-
Well because we’ve had to wind back the deficits of Labor and get the budget back into balance.
You can’t reduce debt, Leigh, if you’re still running deficits.
And so we’ve had to take down, from the record deficits of Labor, to bring the budget back into a surplus position for the next financial year.
Now you can’t pay down debt until you get back into surplus and it has taken us the last five and a half years to wind back the baked in spending excesses of the Labor Party, to get the budget under control, and now we’ve turned the corner on debt and if we keep making those decisions that’s why my goal is you keep making those decisions and you will wipe out debt within 10 years.
If you go down Labor’s path, you won’t.
Well I think it’s just fundamental economics 101, Leigh.
No, they abolished taxes at the same time, Leigh.
They actually lessened the overall individual tax burden on Australians.
That’s why I don’t want to see, and I’ve legislated it at this end, in 94 per cent of cases, more than 32.
5 cents in the dollar in tax.
I’ve already cut taxes for small business.
Today, I announced we’re cutting taxes further for small business by increasing the instant asset write off to $25,000 and that’s over $750 million worth of small businesses’ own money that they get to keep.
Lower taxes have been a key part of our economic plan that has generated record jobs growth, 1.
2 million.
The strongest growth in a year for young people, for people over 55, for women, right across the board, getting people off welfare and into work and a key part of our economic plan has been lower taxes.
Labor wants to put a sheet anchor on the economy in $200 billion in higher taxes.
Australia has had 27 years of continuous economic growth.
We are at the top of the leader pack when it comes to advanced developed economies in the world for economic growth, the world is looking to us in terms of how we’ve been able to succeed and how we’ve been able to succeed as a government is by keeping taxes low, backing small business, investing in infrastructure so people can get home on time and tradies can spend more time on the time and not in a traffic jam, expanding our export markets, defence industry procurement plans.
I mean, this is how we’ve been growing the economy and the plan I announced today builds on that success.
Well migrants form part of the overall population flows into the country, we don’t have a breakdown of that, Leigh.
I don’t have those figures to hand, Leigh.
What I do know is that population growth has not run as high as jobs growth.
So that means jobs growth has been at a higher rate than population growth and has been running at a higher rate than migration growth.
What I’m saying, Leigh, is that all Australians who are living here are getting more jobs today than they were before.
When we came to office, the rate of jobs growth in Australia under Labor was 0.
2 per cent, today, it’s 2.
2 per cent.
It’s 11 times higher.
We inherited a basket case of a jobs program under the Labor Party and we’ve turned it into one of the biggest jobs generating governments in the history of the country.
Well in principle this is what our intention would be, but we’ve obviously got to see a report before we make a decision on that and that’s why the Treasurer has announced today that in a very measured process, over the weekend, once we receive that report which will be in the middle of a market day so you wouldn’t go and release it while the markets were open, the government will consider that over the weekend and provide an interim and initial, if not final, response on the Monday after the lockup after markets close.
Now that’s important to ensure that there’s stability in the financial system, you don’t go shocking financial markets, you take your time on this.
But I think that is a reasonable timeframe to ensure the Royal Commission report is released in a timely way and done so in a way which maximises stability for the financial system.
I’m going to wait to see what he recommends, I’m not going to speculate on it.
But I want to commend Commissioner Hayne for the outstanding job he has done.
He has kept it in the time frame, he has got it done.
He has also been very mindful, I think, of the impact of this Royal Commission on the financial system, and I think he’s been very careful not to exacerbate problems, particularly around credit restrictions.
Now we have seen a fair bit of that happening.
That has been impacting on the economy.
So it’s important we ensure stability on how we respond to this report, and making sure the economy can continue to kick along without any unnecessary shocks.
It is actually.
Well who is creating that perception?
The Labor Party have.
No they haven’t, because they have made very clear their personal reasons for doing that.
Just like Gai Brodtmann did, just like Kate Ellis did, just like Jenny Macklin did, just like Wayne Swan did, just like Jacinta Collins has done, and what I find upsetting is, you know me Leigh, I’m for family values and when people raise issues like miscarriages with me, I’m not going to be so insensitive as to not understand fully the reasons for that decision.
I think it’s pretty disappointing that Bill Shorten would cast a slur on Liberal members for genuine family reasons for leaving, but when it comes to Labor members it’s ok, I think this shows a failing of character, he should have just wished us well.
He should have just wished Kelly O’Dwyer well.
It’s ok for Tim Hammond, a bloke from Western Australia to say he is not going to stay one term of parliament, but for Kelly, who has served the parliament for almost 10 years, for her to leave because of quite personal reasons, particularly relating to issues that I’m sure all Australians would want to wish her well, I just find frankly quite disappointing.
I’m committed to winning the next election, and in the Liberal Party…
It’s a tough job.
That’s not my plan.
Australia can’t afford Bill Shorten as a Prime Minister so I’ve got every energy flying into that and the leadership of the Liberal Party is always the gift of the parliamentary Liberal Party and I never make any presumptions upon it.
We’ll go through the normal process of setting those Leigh, I’ve always been very available to 7.
30 and always enjoy our friendly chats.
Good on you Leigh.
Good to talk to you.
G’day Kier, it's great to be here in the studio and great to be here in Cairns again.
Well as you say, this is not my first visit to Cairns.
I’ve been here many times and last time I was here last year it was $10 million for the innovation hub out there at JCU.
Yesterday, you’re right, we announced $60 million to free up 150 beds, 150 new beds at the Hospital, but which also sees the great work of JCU and their Tropical Medicine Centre continue on, that’s fantastic.
We’re heading up to Cooktown today, it’s the 250th anniversary of the voyage of then Lieutenant James Cook who he went on to be Captain James Cook.
He stopped in two places along the east coast.
One was in my electorate of Cook down there in southern Sydney in Kurnell and the other one - a much longer stay as Warren Entsch reminds me all the time \sup here in north Queensland, he maintains he had a much better time.
So I’m looking forward to going up there.
There’s a lot of excitement about that 250th anniversary and we’re investing in a range of local projects, upgrades for tourist infrastructure, parks, these sorts of things, which commemorate those events.
But also announcing the voyage, the re-enactment of the voyage that will call in all around the east coast of Australia for the 250th anniversary.
That’ll be great for tourism and it’ll also be a great opportunity just to talk about our history; the view from the shore, the view from the ship and very much understanding those two stories like we do in my home electorate every year, with our meeting of two cultures ceremony on the 29th of April.
I think this voyage will provide an opportunity to tell those shared stories.
Yes, it’s about that for both projects.
Yeah, the $5.
8 million that we’re spending up in Cooktown, that includes the reconciliation of the Rocks Precinct, the development of the Botanical Gardens, the upgrades to the Gamaay Dreaming Track and the Waymburr Story Project.
There’s a range of those local projects that will help people when they go to that part of the country to be able to learn the stories, understand the stories from both an indigenous perspective and from an European perspective.
I think that’s one of the things people love coming from Australia to do; to understand our stories.
We’ve got great stories and some of them are hard, some of them are magnificent, but we’ve got to tell them all.
We’re proceeding cautiously here.
Warren and I had a good discussion about this, as well as with some locals.
There is nothing immediately proceeding there, protecting those conservation values is incredibly important, but also providing the opportunity for people to experience these incredible areas.
I mean, the two have to be done together.
I know there are a lot of different views here in the community about what needs to be done there, so we’ll keep listening.
Well coal creates lots and lots and lots of jobs.
No I don’t, because we’re meeting our commitments, we’ve set our commitments.
We met Kyoto 1, we will comfortably smash Kyoto 2 and I believe we will meet 2030 our targets there which we have set.
I’ve reassured Pacific leaders about that just last week as well.
We have plans to achieve it, we will achieve it.
The thing about Australia and our commitments on emissions reductions is we actually make them and achieve them.
You know, I don’t go around talking about them every day, we just go around doing them every day and make sure we achieve them.
So we’ve got those programs in place, we will continue and we share the concerns about the impacts of climate change, not just about addressing its causes but also addressing its impacts her right around our region in particular, where those impacts can be more severe.
But also in supporting scientific research that we have up here into the Reef.
I mean, the Reef is both one of our most amazing environmental assets and it’s a livelihood for a large number of Australians, particularly living up here in Queensland and managing and balancing those interests is important.
But I believe everybody’s job is important, whether it’s working in the mining sector, whether it’s working in the environmental sector, whether it’s working in hospitals, whether it’s working in small business.
All of their jobs are important and I want to keep them in all of their jobs.
Well I’d always like more.
What I want though is the best people to continue to take on the task that we have set ourselves.
Over the last five and a half years we have created over a million jobs as a Government and we’ve had record growth in youth jobs.
I mean here alone, in Leichhardt in this part of Australia, we have seen the youth unemployment rate fall from 28 per cent to 15.
6 per cent since the last election.
Now that’s great news, that’s great news for parents who are worried about their kids getting jobs, it’s great news for people coming out of school.
The strength of our economy here supported - not just I should say by the tourism industry and hospitality industry which has always been key to this part of Australia - but the growing and burgeoning health sector, human services sector.
This is why we have been investing in James Cook University.
I mean this is a tropical capital, not just for Australia but for the region.
I’d like to have more.
Well we have our candidates set as we go in and we’ve got a strong female representation and there are more seats to fill between now and the next election.
You know, we've got six women in my Cabinet, that’s the highest number under our Government and they are all very capable women and doing a fantastic job.
But you know what’s important for women?
That the gender pay gap has actually fallen to its lowest level on record.
That the female workforce participation is at its highest level in record.
That we’ve been addressing the cost of childcare, that we’re investing $350 million already in addressing domestic violence as we move forward to our fourth action plan to do just that.
Keeping women safe, keeping women having economic choices and opportunities.
I want more women to have more choices in life.
Many are trying to create those choices themselves and can feel frustrated.
I want to be able to break through that barrier so they can live the life that they choose to live.
Yeah Jeff’s always good for some advice.
I like the blend of experience.
Take Warren.
I mean, Warren has been so central, Warren Entsch, in the development of Cairns to what it is today and North Queensland.
I mean over his time – and I’m not just talking about big road projects and things like this – he told me yesterday, over $4 billion worth of investment he’s been able to shepherd into this part of the country.
He is both a champion for north Queensland and a great mentor to many of my colleagues, particularly those new ones who are coming in.
Like Senator Amanda Stoker, she’s our most recent member coming in for Queensland, taking up from where George Brandis went out.
So, a bloke out and a highly talented woman coming in.
You’ve got someone like Amanda, full of passion and full of vision for the future, you’ve got people like Warren who have got experience and the burning passion still and a plan for north Queensland.
That’s why I just back Warren in, because he knows what to do here, because he’s so connected.
Well I offered her one when I became Prime Minister and she decided she didn’t want to proceed with it at that time, so I respect her decision.
I respect her choice, she’ll make her choices and I’ll respect those choices.
She’s said she’s intending to run and she’s pre-selected and she’s running out there now, that’s what she’s said on the record.
That’s just politics, I mean the Murray-Darling Basin Plan is a very serious and sensitive issue.
It’s been a bipartisan initiative for many, many years.
David Littleproud – as your listeners may have heard being interviewed on AM just before this program, was working closely with Tony Burke.
I mean the scientific evidence and research that is currently forming the Murray-Darling Basin Plan, was actually done under Labor.
Now I’m not criticizing that work, we were using that work that they did and we’ve worked in a cooperative and bipartisan way.
Now an election comes up and Bill Shorten wants to take advantage.
I just think that’s the wrong way to approach it.
We will be taking advice from the experts and we’ll continue to do that.
The Minister will have more to say about that today.
But on top of that, as you can see, the meetings have taken place between the environmental license-holders and the water-managers.
The New South Wales Government are the ones who manage the water flows in that part of the country and we’ll work closely to support them as well.
But it’s a very serious issue and I know it’s very distressing.
No I’m not at all, I’d like to be informed by the work that we will do.
But I’m not going to engage in those sort of theatrics from Bill Shorten.
I mean you just can’t trust him with this stuff, he always flicks the switch to the politics on this.
We’ve had such good bipartisanship on this and he just wants to turn it over for political purposes and I find that very disappointing.
You’re right we will have a Budget, we’ll hand down a Budget on the 2nd of April.
It will be the first surplus Budget this country has seen in 12 years.
This will be very important for the country and we’ve been pulling this Budget back now over the last five years.
Well it doesn’t need to be restored because it hasn’t been cut, it’s funding is not going backwards it’s actually being maintained.
But I particularly want to commend the work the regional ABC does.
I mean from my Liberal and National parliamentary colleagues who represent regional electorates, I know that they greatly value the work that the ABC does in regional parts of the country.
It’s great to have a local regional host here in Cairns, that’s fantastic as well.
I think the services it provides here in regional areas is outstanding.
No there hasn’t.
There’s been no reduction in funding.
I mean we asked the ABC to actually do the same thing that every single Department and agency has to do in terms of an efficiency dividend, which they weren’t required to do for years and years and years.
So that’s what impacts on the forward estimates, but the ABC gets a good budget, it gets a strong budget and it does a good job with that budget.
But you know if I have to choose between financing and supporting lung cancer drugs and some other opportunities, guess what I’m going to choose?
$60 million for the hospital in Cairns.
Well it’s not legislation, it’s part of code.
What I’m saying is, I used to be the Immigration Minister, you know, it’s my signature on many Australians’ citizenships today.
I had someone who bumped into me at Kakadu the other day actually, they mentioned that to me, they wanted to say g’day.
I just want the ceremony to be treated with respect.
I’ve been to many, many of these ceremonies around the country and the vast majority of new Australians who become Australians on the day, do just that.
But just dress appropriately, is my point.
Don’t come looking like you just got out of bed, that’s not showing respect.
Citizenship is the most important gift a country can give anyone.
Now I wouldn’t turn up to my kids’ graduation in thongs and boardies, I wouldn’t do that.
I’d certainly be wearing that at the party afterwards or at the barbeque or down at the beach, of course I’d do that.
But this is an important institution.
Citizenship should be respected and it’s about respect for your fellow citizens who are becoming citizens on that day, as well as respect for the institution itself.
So look, it’s a commonsense rule, I think there should be a standard and I think people want standards for things like that.
No worries.
Thanks a lot, I look forward to it.
After the Budget.
That’s not too bad?
Okay and well done to the Taipans last night, cheers.
No I don’t provide any commentary on that.
We stay in contact.
Well, I wasn't considering the option that he was and that's never been the subject of our conversations.
Look, I absolutely, like I think all Australians, respect the enormous contribution that Ben Roberts-Smith has made to his country and as I do for all Australians servicemen and women and where there are formal processes that are underway, I'll respect those processes.
I'm sure all Australians will.
What all of my team are talking about and as we have been all this week and as I will continue to from this day all the way to the next election, and that is a strong economy is what guarantees the essentials that Australians rely on.
And we have the runs on the board and we have the - I believe - the trust and confidence of the Australian people to be the ones who are better able to manage that economy into the future.
That's what guarantees Medicare, that’s what guarantees things like MS research.
You can only do that if you're running a strong economy and you can only do that if you can manage a Budget.
Now, we know how to manage money in the Liberal and National Parties, we have demonstrated that.
You’ve asked the question, now let me answer it.
What I'm saying is, is that we're putting down a Budget next year.
That's what we're focused on.
That will be the first surplus Budget that we have seen in 12 years and that's what pays for things like MS research.
That's what pays for things like life-saving affordable medicines for Australians.
So that's what we're focusing on.
That's what we're doing.
That's what we're delivering and that's what I'll be taking to the next election.
The next election will be about who can run that strong economy to deliver the essential services that Australians rely on and it's a choice - it's a choice the Australian people will be able to make and they can either choose Bill Shorten who wants higher taxes or they can choose me and the Liberal Party and the National Party which will keep taxes down and grow that economy can which gives then the essential services they rely on.
That really is a matter for the Parliament and I have sought to deal with this in a bipartisan way.
I have put forward two proposals to seek to deal with this in a bipartisan way and I'm disappointed that the Labor Party has sought to politicise this issue and play political football with it.
I remain of the view I would like to see this matter addressed in the same terms I set out some months ago.
Well that's different to what we proposed to them and we heard nothing from them for over a month until one of them, the Shadow Attorney-General, decided to go and do an ABC radio interview.
I don't consider the way they’ve handled that in the spirit of, I thought, the bipartisan approach that I had offered.
So I found that disappointing.
Our proposals are very clear and we would seek support for those proposals that we put forward.
Watch this space as he would say.
Thank you.
G’day Sabra.
Well Chris is absolutely right, it is about enabling farmers and entire communities to drought proof for the future by supporting them to invest in on-farm water infrastructure and other important infrastructure.
And but I’ve got to say, dog fences and pests and weeds and things like that are also incredibly important for farmers to manage drought.
I saw that firsthand up in Quilpie.
Well they are.
I mean, dog fencing for example also stops the movement of things like kangaroos onto pasture property which can actually gobble up basically all the feed that potentially it’s grown.
So all of these things are important, and that’s what’s been relayed back to me and I think Chris is spot on.
So what we’re doing is setting up what is basically the drought future fund and it has a capital base of $3.
9 billion rising to $5 billion, and out of the earning of that fund we’re investing $100 million back into drought proofing water-based infrastructure around the country.
And today I’ll also be announcing measures for on-farm small grant infrastructure projects on farms which can support that.
We’ll also be going to announcing more support to go through the charitable sector so we can get the immediate relief funds to rural communities, not just farmers, a lot more quickly.
So it’s a comprehensive response.
Well exactly, and this is why there are two measures there.
The first one is one you’d be familiar with which is the Drought Communities Program and a million dollars going into local shires and drought affected areas…
No, the $5 billion fund is a capital fund that is putting away money for a non-rainy day and to draw down on the earnings, $100 million a year, to invest in longer-term resilience projects.
But what I am saying is the drought communities program is putting $1 million into every single shire in a drought affected area and we’re going to be expanding that today.
What that is doing is putting money into the towns because councils are often the biggest economic generators in those towns and that’s putting more money in the communities and we’re going to be announcing things today which is supporting charities through the voucher programs and things like that which is keeping the money in the towns and the spending in the towns.
On top of that we’ve already, as you know, been acting on rural health counselors, we’ll have a bit more to say on that today.
And farmers are also telling us in rural communities that they need better access to information.
Now we have the drought buses that have been going around which has been doing that, but there are some great initiatives which have been suggested to us around farm hubs.
So there’s a… this is a comprehensive response which is about relief, it’s about recovery and it’s about long-term resilience.
That’s why I think in your earlier report, Chris had it bang on and that’s what we’ve been hearing and that’s what we’re announcing.
Yeah the $3.
9 billion that is there will be transferred by legislation into the new Future Drought Fund and that will enable to earn at a higher level and it’ll be based on what is done with the Medical Research Fund, the MRF, which has been ensuring we build up a capital…
No no no, the legislation… that won’t be for that purpose because as I announced when we got rid of the Medicare Levy increase that we were able to fully fund the National Disability Insurance Scheme out of the Budget and I made that announcement back prior to the Budget.
So this fund can now be fully dedicated to supporting the future resilience of Australia and Australian rural communities against drought.
So this is putting the resources to the applied use here and it’ll be able to earn a higher rate of return because of the way we’re setting it up than it currently is now, which enables us to invest those earnings in drought proofing.
Well we’re going to have today the Bureau of Meteorology providing their picture to the Drought Summit and that’ll be important, and one of the things Major General Steven Day…
Well I’m trying to answer the question, Sabra, if you’d let me just sort of answer the question that’d be great.
What I’m saying is the Bureau of Meteorology is providing that information on future weather events we’re expecting over the summer.
Major General Stephen Day has pulled together what he calls the ‘common operating picture’.
One of the problems we’ve got is that states, territories, charities, ourselves, others involved in drought support are all working off different information.
And they’ll be able to work off one, common map which says where the financial hardship is, where the most intense weather problems are, where the issues are in terms of economic performance and the banks will be helping us to achieve that.
So we’ve got to work off one set of plans, and that’s what we’re also announcing today and we’ll be running through that.
Weather, and the forecasts on the weather, whether it’s El Nino or anything else, that’s part of the picture we’re putting together.
We’ll meet all the targets that we’ve set for ourselves and that’s exactly what we’re doing and that’s our record.
I mean we’ve hit Kyoto One and…
Well I point to the evidence.
Kyoto One, totally beat.
Kyoto Two, we will totally beat and when you go out to 2030, then all the information before us and particularly the increased investment in renewables which is happening as a result of common sense and technology.
What has been underestimated has been the likely and planned investment in renewable technology, particularly for energy, over the next ten years which is going to significantly to assist us in meeting those targets.
But also it’s the change in demand management.
I was at an ice cream wholesaler just this week down here in Canberra and the energy management and demand management practices he’s put in place in his own business is one of the key reasons, whether it’s in the business community or whether it’s in the household sector, people have changed their behaviors.
And so this is what is making all of these things far more achievable and so you know, you don’t… where we need to put money is in, say in the energy sector, is making sure we’ve got reliable power.
But it’s also making sure that the interventions we’re making, so the big energy companies can’t be ripping off customers.
I mean renewables are standing on their own two feet.
I think that’s fantastic.
Which was reversed, Sabra, it’d be fair for you to point out.
And they made very clear…
Well I know that’s the commentary coming out of the media bubble here down in Canberra and out of the Labor Party, Sabra.
Well Sabra, you know what?
You know what people are interested in?
They’re interested in lower electricity prices, they’re interested in addressing the drought.
I mean, this week we also had the National Apology to victims of child sexual abuse, where we announced measures to ensure that their stories will not be forgotten and that was the other real thing that happened in Canberra this week.
The other real thing that happened in Canberra this week and last week is unemployment came down to 5 per cent.
We passed the Trans Pacific Partnership deal, we passed laws to reduce small business tax down to 25 per cent.
These are the things, Sabra, that are impacting on people’s daily lives and today, we’re talking about providing relief, recovery and resilience for farmers and rural communities affected by the drought.
Now people can talk about process issues in Canberra all they like, but what I’m doing is just getting stuff done.
Thanks Sabra, great to be here.
Cheers.
Well I don’t agree with that, John.
But one of the keys things that he’s been doing is trying to get what in the military they refer to a common operating picture.
What does that mean?
It means we’ve got to get everyone on the same page about where the need is and that is what we’ve been doing over the last eight weeks.
You know, working with the Bureau of Meteorology, working with the farming communities, working with the banks, working with the charities, so we can better coordinate where all the support and assistance goes.
Oh gosh.
In the last eight weeks, it’d be countless.
I mean, he sends me a text every day.
He’s been in South Australia, Queensland, New South Wales, down in Victoria.
He’s even been over in places like the west and where there is no drought but how they can be better supporting the efforts on the east coast.
So, mate, he’s been everywhere.
Rural towns, major cities talking to the ag ministers.
He’s been very, very active.
Well there have been… this is coming out of the Future Fund so we are putting aside $3.
9 billion in capital and that will go into the Future Drought Fund, and that will earn, as these funds do, and that will grow to $5 billion.
And that is also after we’ve been taking some of the earnings, about $100 million a year, and investing that in longer drought resilience projects across the country which can include everything from stuff happening on farm or more broadly.
So that is putting money away for a non-rainy day and ensuring that we are addressing the longer-term resilience because the three things we have to do with the drought is: A; get the relief to the people who need it now and that’s why we’ve been doing that with additional financial assistance and supporting people with mental health counsellors and financial counsellors and ensuring we are supporting the charities and coordinating their efforts now.
But then there’s the recovery, getting back on our feet.
That’s where we’ve got support for investing in silage infrastructure and things like that.
And longer-term, you need that bigger drought proofing and making sure we have the resources in the future to support our drought efforts over a longer-term.
That’s the plan and the way you do it is by taking the big stick to electricity companies and having the legislation and the powers to… .
I mean, our electricity… there are big companies, it’s heavily regulated, too often that regulations have worked in favour of the big companies not the customers so we are going to even up that score.
A bit like a number of years ago when I was the Treasurer and we changed the competition laws to even the rules up for small business, which I know you were a keen advocate of at the time.
So it’s the same sort of thing but we’ve got to put more power back in the hands of the customers and less in the hands of the big energy companies.
But I was surprised, I’ve got to say John, and disappointed, the Labor Party aren’t going to back us on this legislation.
I’ve got no idea.
They want to… they’re not going to take a big stick to the energy companies but they’re going to take a big stick to people’s home prices with abolishing negative gearing as we know it and increasing capital gains tax by 50 per cent.
So, they’ve got a big stick but it’s going to go and whack people’s home values.
Well that’s what I’m working to stop but also to ensure that we can keep doing the things that we know are, you know, driving the economy forward.
I mean, last week unemployment came down to 5 per cent which is great news for Australian job seekers and good on for Australian businesses for putting people on.
Well I think they all have a role to play because former prime ministers have things to contribute.
And particularly internationally because of the relationships that they’ve formed.
I mean, just this last week Julia Gillard was down in Canberra for the National Apology for the victims of child sexual abuse in institutions.
Now she initiated the Royal Commission and I thought she did a great job this week…
… she was supporting victims and survivors.
And so she can do a great job there, others can do a great job… I mean I had Tony, he’s still in the Parliament, but Tony’s out there working with me in indigenous communities looking at how we can get more indigenous kids in school.
And of course, eight weeks ago, many, many weeks ago, we’d arranged with the Indonesian president, President Widodo, he’s got this big conference on oceans, and Malcolm was always going to go to that previously.
I can’t go and the Indonesian president, with whom we have a very important relationship, very warmly received the offer that he might attend.
So I know that upset a few people but it’s got nothing to do with Wentworth, it’s just got to do with putting people where they’ve got the skills to go and do a job.
I can.
I can, John, and I get that.
But, you know, we’ve got to move on.
There’s just too many personalities in politics.
People like politicians, they don’t like politicians, they don’t like this one or that one, and that’s what it’s about.
What it’s about is what we are coming together today to do and that is to make sure we are backing in farmers and rural and regional communities and particularly the towns.
I mean you know this, you know this better than anyone, when the drought hits it’s not just the farmers who cop it, but it’s the towns.
So we are putting a million bucks into every single shire in a drought affected area so they can bring forward projects, they can do road works, they can fix up the toilet block at the local pool or they can do some records management.
And that’s putting money into the towns for local contractors, for local staff and that keeps the town churning.
We are going to expand that program today and reach more shires because sadly in places like South Australia and Victoria the drought is moving into those parts and it’s getting dryer.
So we are keeping on top of that and we are making sure we are delivering the support.
Well there’s a range of them.
That one is actually run by Bridget McKenzie and she’s the Minister for Rural and Regional Services.
She is the minister responsible for that fund.
On water infrastructure projects, that’s the Minister for Agriculture, David Littleproud.
And on the road projects, that’s Minister Michael McCormack, the Deputy Prime Minister.
Well so was I, John.
I was the one who abolished it so actions speaker louder than words.
I mean, I think since the 2014/15 Budget it hadn’t been revisited really.
It’d been there and then when I became Prime Minister I said I think we should get rid of that, and we did.
We can always do better.
But one of the things we do have in this country, whether it’s affordable medicines under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, which really does support senior Australians.
I announced the Royal Commission into residential aged care a few weeks back to make sure we build a culture of respect for senior Australians.
That’s really important to ensure they get the care they need.
We’ve increased the support for in-home aged care places by about 20,000 places in the last twelve months.
So we are doing all that, but I tell you what we are not going to do, John.
We’re not going to take away their dividend imputation credits they get from their investments in Australian shares.
Now the Labor Party, that’s their policy.
It’s going to whack Australians, particularly senior Australians to the tune of just under $5 billion a year.
So as much as what we are putting into this future fund on drought…
… they are going to whack that out of the pockets of retirees all around the country.
And for what purpose?
Just to splurge money around.
There was a miscommunication between… with the Senate and they stuffed it up and they shouldn’t have and I was pretty angry about it and they fixed it.
No they shouldn’t and, you know, they shouldn’t.
And so I think they came pretty clean on that and it was a fair cop.
I wouldn’t have voted for that and I said the next day and I know the Leader of the Government in the Senate was very apologetic about how that had happened.
But you know what happened down here John?
I mean, you know this.
It’s the Canberra bubble.
You know what happened in the Senate?
It turns into a bit of a high school debating society.
They put all these motions up, day after day after day after day.
There not Bills, they’re not things that actually pass laws or change anything.
It’s just a lot of people grandstanding in Canberra, pontificating, and what I’m about is getting more support for farmers, more support for rural communities, more support in residential aged care and in-home aged care places, getting unemployment down to five per cent, passing laws to reduce taxes for small and family businesses, which we did last week down to 25 per cent.
The new big trade deal, the Trans Pacific Partnership 11; I mean, that is going to enable all of us, including our farmers to reach half a billion customers.
We’ve passed that through the Parliament.
So that’s real stuff.
The other fluff and bubble that goes on in Canberra, frankly I think most Australians just turn off to.
No, not at all John.
Not at all.
I think all Australians should be treated with dignity and respect and they shouldn’t be discriminated against for who they are.
Well I’ve got no idea.
People do stupid things from time to time.
Well my faith teaches me to love everyone, John.
Yes, I do.
Sometimes, mate, as you know, it can be a bit hard to like all the time.
I suspect it’s a bit hard for them to like me all the time too, but that’s just life.
But I think we’ve got to treat everyone, each other, with dignity and respect and one of the things that I said when I became Prime Minister is yeah I want to keep Australia strong, our economy strong, so we can afford all the things that matter, you know the pension, health care, schools.
We’ve got to keep Australians safe, on our boarders but also in our schools.
This week we had the National Apology to the victims of child sexual abuse in institutions and I was there with hundreds and hundreds of people earlier this week and it made it just… it just breaks your heart what happened to them.
I’ve never met… I’ve never been in a room, John..
I could actually feel my body just quivering at the level of hurt that was in that room.
It was quite overwhelming.
So we’ve got to keep our kids safe because we didn’t keep those kids safe.
It’s our national shame and I thought the Apology was a great way to acknowledge it, and a number of people have said to me, look thank you.
They want to see the action and we are following through on the action but just the acknowledgement of it.
Because for so long their tears were never seen.
Yeah there’s always plenty of work.
But I’m getting home later tonight but I’ll be out at Invictus for the closing ceremony and how good has that been?
I think so.
Australians and Sydney-siders have got out, not just supporting our own athletes, but they’ve supported the courage and the victory whether they came first second or at the tail-end of the field, everyone is getting cheered on because they’re all champions and they’ve all demonstrated something that’s just a unique testament to the human spirit.
They are.
So I’m looking forward with them.
Jen and the girls went out and saw a lot of the events this week while I’ve been down here in Canberra and they were telling me just how good it was and how encouraged all the athletes were and how they all cheered.
It’s just awesome.
Well it is, John.
But your family… my family has always been the mainstay for me and they believe in what I’m doing and whatever we do, we always do as a family.
Thanks, John.
All the best, see you soon.
Hey Fitzy, hey Wippa.
I’ve had the heavy roller out last night, up and back.
It’s looking good mate.
Not one that I’ve found, but the door tends to be open when I get home.
All hours of the night.
That’s all good, but maybe the dog has got the key, I dunno.
I don’t know where it is.
We’ll have to try and find it together.
Yeah it’s breezy.
It’s coming in from the Randwick end.
Yeah, I’m more for effort.
More effort than skill.
Oh I mean if I had to put it between the posts, it’d be alright, yeah.
A little.
I’ve been watching those images of Bob Hawke getting one in the nut.
And of course John’s famous ball.
But you know, I’ll see how I go, it should be a great day.
It’s a great cause, it’s a really great cause.
Well mate I’ve ‘umed and ahed’ over it but I’m going to go with Wippa and all because Wippa’s mum is coming.
He played the big card, bringing mum in and you know, how do you say no to Wippa’s mum?
I want to play against Karl, I want to play against Karl.
No, we’re really happy to have you here and Buddy the dog, he will be on the field, I see the rules allow him to be one of my fielders.
If he gets the ball, you’re not going to catch him.
Yeah he’s our little dog.
Buddy will be there, little black dog, he’ll be running around.
He loves getting the ball and taking off.
Oh, and congratulations, can I say, to Ryan Carter, a great bloke who has founded this Batting For Change.
I was talking to the Indian President about it yesterday when he was out, he’s going to the t20 and I said: “Well, we’ve got a bit of a match going on over at our place”.
He decided to stay with the t20.
Anyway, it should be a great day and well done guys.
Okay, cheers.
Great to be here.
We’ll find out whether it is or not in a sec I suspect.
Well it’s a great job.
I love the job.
The best thing about this job is it doesn’t matter where you go in the country everybody is happy to have a chat with you.
That is actually the best part of the job.
It doesn’t matter where I am; I was up at Bathurst on the weekend and we’re chatting to families who are there and that event was amazing.
I got to do a hot lap with Mark Skaife and my little girl Lilly came with me for the day.
I didn’t tell her she was going to be on national television and she’s sitting there in the back of the hot lap and we’re coming down off the mountain and it was literally like being on the Wild Mouse.
And we were rolling around and her pig tails were up in the air and she was having a great time.
So look, the serious part of the job is a great privilege and you can make a difference everyday – how good is that?
I came pretty late to the party, I’ve got to say.
I was there right at the end.
But look, when people ask you to step up, you do, and that’s what I’ve done and we are getting on with it.
It was messy.
It was a really messy week.
But the important thing is that you’ve got to move quickly to get things on track again and we’ve done that.
I mean today we are announcing that we are cutting taxes for small business again.
We are bringing forward the small business tax rate down to 25 per cent.
So every hairdresser in the country, every tradie who’s out there working this morning running their own business, you’re going to pay 25 per cent under us.
Molly’s pretty switched on.
Well he did apologise for it.
Yeah he did apologise for it.
As I said at the time, they weren’t painting it on, it’s all sort of passed now.
It became a bit of a kerfuffle up there in Sydney, but you know, it’s all passed now.
You know, the Opera House is still standing.
Well state governments run the state government schools…
No no.
The state government runs them but we’ve put $29 billion extra into our public schools and into our independent schools and into our Catholic schools.
You know, everybody should have a choice about what they do.
I went to public schools all of my life, so did my wife, and we took a decision to send our kids to a Christian school because that’s how we are bringing our kids up and when parents want to do that they should have that choice.
But state schools, they are the heart of the education system for the overwhelming majority of families.
About 30 per cent of kids actually go to non-state schools and we want all kids to have the best education regardless of what school they go to and our funding package backs that up.
No look my kids…
Well I do support state government schools but you know what, if I want to send my kids to a Christian school, why shouldn’t I be able to do that?
Well it can.
There are some schools which are non-state schools that don’t cost much and there are others that cost more and parents make their own choices.
But all parents should have their choices and as I said, I went to state government schools…
I did.
I enjoyed my time at state government schools and I went to great schools.
And there are great schools where my electorate is in Sydney and my kids were going to those schools and then we made a decision to send them to a Christian school.
Look, you know what I really don’t like about the education debate?
It’s not an us and them thing.
No it’s not.
It’s not an us and them.
No.
I mean, why do we have to set parents against each other?
Why do we do that?
Why do we have to put kids who go to one school against kids who go to another school?
How about parents just make their own decisions be supported in their choices and let them all have a great education?
That’s not my view.
No they haven’t.
We are increasing the amount of funding going into public schools by around $20 billion over the next five years and we are increasing the amount that’s going into independent schools and into Catholic schools.
We are spending more and more money on education but what I want to see is I want to see us get good results for that money.
I mean you can’t just splash money around and think that’s the answer.
We are investing more in schools, I mean, the Commonwealth Government has increased our funding to public schools five times faster than state governments have.
So we are in there and we are backing them in, but you know what, I don’t think…
Of course they are.
The reason I’ve decided to send my kids, because you guys have raised it, to an independent school is because I want them to go to a Christian school.
I think the education quality they were getting in the public school was as good; I just wanted them to go to a Christian school.
Well it also sounds untrue.
Well what happens is under current law, which was introduced under the Labor Government, by the way, Tanya Plibersek, they introduced the law which allows religious schools to exercise their judgement about who can work in schools and all the rest.
But what the proposal is to us is that that should be refined to make it better to ensure that the interest of the child is put at the centre of any decisions.
The report also finds that there has been no practice where these schools have been doing this either.
So all I said yesterday was what is being talked about is currently the law and it was actually a law introduced by the Labor Party when they were in Government.
Now what has been proposed to us by Philip Ruddock is we should be tightening that law to ensure that the interest of the child is put at the centre of the consideration and I think religious schools will support that strongly.
So you know, once again, people go out there and say I’ve said something that I haven’t said at all.
I don’t think people should have a right to discriminate against people on the basis of their race, on the basis of their gender, or on the basis of their religion, or any of these things…
… or their sexuality.
I genuinely believe that and protecting people’s faith is as important as protecting their discrimination on their race.
So there’s been a report on that, we are going to look at that carefully.
But I want to stress, what we are looking to do, what’s been proposed to us, is to ensure that the children at the centre of these issues are at the centre of consideration.
And the law that we currently have, which the Labor Party brought in actually doesn’t do that.
What I’m really comfortable about is that I come in here with you guys and I can hear from these young children who clearly spend a lot of time… .
I’m encouraged by the state school system here in Victoria which shows such an intense level of understanding of modern politics.
Look, we are righting the ship really quickly, we are getting on with it, we are backing small businesses.
It’s been fun to come in here with you guys to talk about important issues.
Schools are an important issue, discrimination is an important issue, and making sure we create jobs and young people… you know last year 100,000 jobs created for young people: the strongest ever year of growth for youth employment in Australia’s economic history.
You get a young kid into a job, it changes their life forever.
We are nowhere near it.
G’day Sabra.
Well that will always be up to the small and medium sized businesses but what we found last time when we provided business tax relief is that small businesses did provide support for wages in some cases.
In other cases, they invested more in their businesses.
Because small and medium sized businesses, that’s what they do.
They don’t just walk away and put their money in their pocket.
They invest back in their businesses and in their people.
This is a very big boost to businesses that employ more than half the Australian workforce and last time they reacted very well with strong investment and strong support for their employees, boosting employment and creating new opportunities in local towns right across the country to our big cities.
Well I know that if small businesses and medium sized businesses are paying less tax to the Government, then they are more able to provide better wages to their employees.
And I know small and medium sized businesses, they put their employees at the center of their business because they know they are the key to the success of their business.
So every business will have that opportunity and will have that decision.
But I do know one thing – if they have to pay more tax to the Government, which is what Labor will have them do, then they will have less flexibility to pay their staff more.
Well they’ll have the opportunity, and they’ll have it fairly soon.
I intend to bring forward this legislation next week into the House of Representatives.
It’s important that I think small and medium sized businesses employing more than half of Australians around the country should have the opportunity to have that legislated as soon as possible.
Under the Liberal Party, under the National Party, small and medium sized businesses’ taxes will fall to 25 per cent.
Under the Labor Party, they are currently even going to reverse the legislated tax cuts to 25 per cent currently scheduled to 2026-27.
Now we are going to bring that forward by five years.
Every business less than $50 million in turnover will have a lower rate of tax in the next term of Parliament down to 25 per cent.
Under the Labor Party, it’ll be higher.
It’s a pretty clear contrast.
Labor is going to tax Australians more.
They are going to tax Australians more than $250 billion more over the next ten years.
Labor’s plan, five point plan, is tax, tax, tax, tax and tax.
Every time you hear Bill Shorten talking, he is increasing your taxes.
And what we’ve done is keep taxes under control, we’ve kept spending under control, we’re bringing the Budget back into balance, we’ve preserved our Triple A credit rating, more than a million jobs have been created.
In the last twelve months, more than 100,000 jobs for young people have been created, the strongest youth jobs growth we’ve seen on economic record in Australia.
So our plan of keeping taxes and spending under control, spending wisely in infrastructure and services, that’s the guarantee that people can rely on in services.
When you manage a Budget and manage an economy, you can actually deliver those services that Labor promises, but we can guarantee we can pay for.
You can’t trust Labor to be able to meet their promises because they can’t run a strong economy and if you put taxes up, you slow the economy down.
Our promises, our commitments, can be guaranteed on essential services because we run a strong economy, we run a strong Budget.
That’s the guarantee that Australians need and I think demand.
It’s no good talking about it, you’ve got to deliver it, and that’s what our Government has been doing.
A strong economy and a strong Budget is the guarantee of essential services and that’s what we can offer.
Well already we’ve seen the permanent intake fall to just over 160,000 and that’s basically the same level it was when the Howard Government left office back in 2007.
Well we’ve got a cap, we don’t have a target.
We changed that a while ago and what this does is largely respond to demand.
What we want to do is make sure particularly that the temporary migration program, now that has been what is driving population growth.
More than 40 per cent of population growth in Australia has been as a result of temporary migration.
Just under 40 per cent has basically been natural increase, and only around 20 per cent of it has been permanent migration.
So managing temporary migration is the key to managing population growth, and that’s actually where you’ve got the most levers.
That’s why we’ve been talking about using the migration program to back in state and territory plans where they want to see population spread in a different way than it is now, to get people to the places they want them and to ensure that where congestion is a big issue like in Sydney and in Melbourne or I would say even the Central Coast of NSW where I was yesterday, that we can alleviate that pressure.
Well you must have misunderstood me, Sabra.
What I’m saying it’s a bit like average rainfall is about as useful as the statistic of average population growth.
What I’m talking about is managing where the population goes, where the temporary migration goes.
That means you can maintain a healthy migration program, but what you’re doing is making sure it’s getting to the places that need it, just like you need rainfall where you need it.
There’s no pint talking about national averages, you’ve got to talk about what’s the population growth in Melbourne?
What’s the population growth in Adelaide, or in Western Australia?
In both of those states, they’re places where they want more people.
I was down in Tasmania just last weekend, they have a plan to lift the population of that state and we want our migration program to support it.
But you’ve got to have a policy for Sydney, you’ve got to have a policy for Melbourne, for south east Queensland, for Cairns, for Townsville, and that’s what our population policies are about.
I mean just to talk about figures at a headline level, I think it’d very superficial and it’d be very misleading and I don’t think that’s the way you actually solve congestion problems in cities where you need to do that or solving the need for more population in others areas where those cities, those towns, those regions are urgently looking for it.
Well we’re looking at that report and it’s a global report, it’s not a report to Australia I should stress.
We take all of those reports seriously, we’re part of that process but we’ve got our commitments and we’re meeting our commitments and we’ll continue to do that.
We’re very confident about our ability to meet those.
Why?
Because we’ve met the targets we’ve already set for ourselves, and we will continue to be able to do that.
I believe that is what we’ll meet, because not only the policy…
Well, this is the advice that we’re working through as a Government.
But what it’s based on also is we’ve crossed a threshold point, Sabra.
No longer in order to see large investment in renewable technologies do you need these heavy subsidies, because it’s now making economic sense all on its own.
We have been through a period in the past where those subsidies have been very important to the build-up of the renewable energy sector.
But when a sector can stand on its two feet and when you look out over the next decade and you see the investment that is coming in renewables, not because governments are throwing money at it but because it just makes good economic financial sense, then that’s how you start to meet these arrangements.
Now also on the demand management side we’ve seen major improvements happening there.
We’ve still got the small scale RET and the large scale RET programs, they remain in place.
And look, everybody can say what they think is going to happen by 2030, Sabra.
I believe, our Government believes we’re going to meet those targets comfortably and in 2030 we can all meet up again and we can sit down and do the interview again, Sabra, but you know we can all have our crystal ball.
Well that’s for the Australian people to judge on us both, isn’t it?
In the same way that all Australians, regardless of their gender or their race in Australia, they can go about their lives each day with important protections that protect them from discrimination.
What the report, which is yet to go fully through a Cabinet process yet, what the report is saying well those sort of same protections and those sort of freedoms, people of different of faiths, of which there are millions in Australia, should have that same level of confidence.
Now we’re working through that report, I’ve only been in the job Sabra as you know for seven weeks or so.
This was a report that had been received by the previous Prime Minister and it was held by the Attorney as well.
It hadn’t gone to Cabinet, Cabinet Ministers hadn’t seen it at that time.
I’ve been working through that, I’ve got a timetable to deal with this by the end of the year, but frankly, my priority immediately was to deal particularly with issues around education which we have been dealing with strongly.
We have been dealing with the issues around the economy and the measures I’m announcing today for lower taxes for small businesses and medium sized businesses.
I’ve been dealing with issues of the drought, the aged care Royal Commission we announced this week.
We’ve had some important priorities we’ve been dealing with.
Religious freedom is an important priority to me as well as all Australians and we’ll work through that in a methodical process but I want to make something really clear, particularly in terms of the reporting that was yesterday.
There is no proposal before the Government to in any way weaken the protections that exist for people of same-sex marriages or for people or children who may be gay or lesbian or the many other descriptions.
There is no law that is proposing from that report to change that in any negative way.
In fact, as Phillip Ruddock made clear yesterday, what the proposal was is to actually put in place better guidelines, more clarity to ensure that the child is at the center of the protection of what that law would do.
Now the law that is currently in place was introduced by the Labor Party.
Tanya Plibersek sat around the Cabinet table when it was out in place, Bill Shorten was part of the Government that put in place the existing law which reflects the protection that is already there for those schools.
Thanks a lot Sabra.
G’day Jon.
What I always do Jon, I’ll argue the toss with you mate.
Well I don’t think… no one has done that, Jon.
No Jon I’m sorry, no politician to my knowledge or anyone else, the former Prime Minister, me or anyone else, has asked for anyone to be fired.
No no they didn’t say that either John.
No it’s not the evidence.
That’s the allegation that a politician has said that.
The politician hasn’t said that, the former Chairman is reported to have said those things but he has said himself that that wasn’t coming in terms of what should happen to staff.
I mean, politicians have every right, Jon, to say if they think the journalist got it wrong… you and I disagree all the time and I call you out when I think you’ve got it wrong and you call me out when you think I’ve got it wrong.
I haven’t got a problem with that.
I mean, on many occasions in the past I’ve taken issue with what the ABC have done, I’ve raised it through the appropriate channels and on quite a few occasions that ABC have had to apologise.
Yeah that’s the process.
That’s the way I’ve always done it.
Yeah of course I am, that’s how it should be.
But we are allowed to say when we think they get it wrong and you know the ABC don’t always apologise when they do get it wrong by the way.
You know, that’s for them, you’re an independent organisation, that’s how it should be.
You’re not perfect.
Well I’m going to wait for the results of the review to come back Jon.
I mean, those sorts of ideas have been floated before but I… look, I will wait to see what the Review says.
I think that’s the fair and sensible thing to do.
It’s not about whether I’m tempted or not, it’s about what the evidence is and what the report says.
So I’ll do it on an evidence base.
We’ll discuss it with our colleagues, that’s what Cabinets do.
We receive a report, we’ll consider the report but no, I don’t come into it with any sort of set view on this Jon.
I really don’t.
Well who is suggesting that?
I don’t get into gossip.
I mean, I’m not going to get into all that.
We make appointments to the board, I expect them to do a job and if they don’t do a job they should go.
I think that’s a pretty cynical observation Jon, that’s your view it’s not mine.
I think people make some pretty subjective assessments of these things and they’re entitled to make them.
I mean, people commentating on people appointed to various board or whatever, they’re entitled to their subjective assessments.
But that doesn’t mean I have to agree with them.
No, there’s a process for that as you know and I’ll let that process follow and we’ll be making a recommendation later in the day for someone to step up into the position of Executive Chair which would mean that they would then become the Acting Chair until these issues are resolved.
That’s the proper process and I’ll be following it.
Well I’m sure there’ll be lots of good nominations made Jon, I hear you’re finishing up next year, maybe you want to throw your hat in the ring.
Yeah there’s lots of names being put up and there’s a process to consider them, Jon, and that’s what we’ll do.
Oh look, those sorts of things would be dealt with through a budget process, not in an interview, and you know, we consider proposals from time to time.
But look, that’s something we deal with in budgets and that’s not something I’m looking at right now.
It’s a priority for our Government to deal with the drought, to get electricity prices down, to keep the economy strong, keep Australians safe and to bring Australians and keep them together.
They’re my priorities.
Well no, we fund the ABC.
I want them to do a good job, I want them to do it in an independent and unbiased way.
That’s what taxpayers pay for and that’s what I expect the board to deliver.
Well look Jon I’m just not going to get drawn on it, it’s just not something that I’m focusing much attention on at the moment.
I’ve told you what I’m focusing on and frankly, the biggest issue for me at the moment and we’re doing a lot of work on it has been the drought.
We’ve got the aged care inquiry which I’m finalising the terms of reference for and looking to appoint some commissioners to that, we’ve got the Royal Commission into the banking and financial industry coming out today, so there’s no shortage of very important issues for us to deal with.
And as interesting as the ABC is.
No look, I was looking at the front pages of the Melbourne papers this morning and I think the Herald Sun has got it right.
Most people in Melbourne today are more interested in the AFL Grand Final than the ABC.
I think The Age pulled the wrong rein there.
Oh look, there’s a little bit more distance to travel on that.
We’re doing some more consultation but I want to do it soon but I also want to make sure we get it right.
And you know, appointing the commissioners as well is a key part of that.
So we’ve been working fastidiously through that ever since I made that announcement last Sunday week, so I think we’re making a lot of progress and I really want to thank Australians for the way they’ve responded and the feedback they’ve been providing.
Well that sometimes is what happens with Royal Commissions.
I think a bit of that is what we’ve seen with the banking and finance Royal Commission, although there has been some new things there and I have no doubt there will be new things that come out of an aged care Royal Commission which deals as you know not only with residential aged care but in-home care places as well as young Australians living in an aged care setting.
So look, I think there will be a lot of bruising information.
I know Jon a lot of people have called into your program over a long time raising terrible, terrible stories.
So look, I think this is going to be tough.
We’ll see what the report says today, it’ll come out today, we’ll release it today as I said I would and then we’ll take the next step then I think Jon.
But I think Commissioner Hayne has done an outstanding job, I really do.
I think he’s got through the work very, very assiduously but also very sensitively and he’s been very focused on making a practical contribution I think out of this and I’m sure he’ll make one and that’ll give us a very good set of recommendations to work with.
No he hasn’t.
No I wouldn’t describe it like that and I don’t think Commissioner Hayne would describe it like that.
I don’t think he is giving it a once over quick hit Jon, I think he’s been an outstanding commissioner who has applied what is an amazing intellect to this and an application which I think has given absolute justice to the seriousness of the issues and if he asks for more time, he’ll get it.
Well he took the job on the basis that he would do a great job and he’d follow the terms of reference.
The money will be spent on the schools that we’ve committed.
That’s what… we’re growing our state school funding by over six per cent and funding for non-state schools with less than six per cent out to about 2023.
We’ve made our commitments to support all schools.
There's more money going into all schools, and we’re both preserving choice, we’re making sure the needs-based formula works right across the board and what we had from the Chaney Review was I think a very clear recommendation which said you had to look at the individual circumstances of parents in non-state schools and that’s exactly what we’re doing.
So look, I think it’s an improved arrangement than the one we had before.
It addresses some weaknesses that were there and I think that’s good.
We’ll spend the money.
That’s the plan, and we’ll spend the money on kids’ education.
I’m not going to get caught up in the usual state politics and the argy bargy of this, I’m just going make sure we spend the money on kids’ schools.
PRIME MINISTER – RECORDING: Well I just don’t know why people have to always bring Australia down and I don’t think engaging in this sort of indulgent self-loathing actually makes our country stronger.
I mean, I want to bring Australians together around this day.
That’s the date that the ships turned up.
Well every time… I mean there are some people who want to change the date who I think do so out of a real genuine empathy for indigenous Australians and I think they have responded well to my suggestion that we also have an opportunity, not Australia Day, but another day not the same as Australia Day to recognise the contribution of our Indigenous people, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders.
But there are others, you know, who just go out there and just want to take a sledge on Australia Day all the time and promote themselves and engage in this “Australia is the worst country on earth.
” Well that’s just… I don’t buy into it.
I think Australians are just sick of it and I think these guys should pull their heads in.
Well I thought the Byron Bay Mayor was doing a pretty good job of it.
I thought Richard Di Natale was doing a pretty good job of it and I think they should pull their heads in.
I mean, we can celebrate Australia Day.
We talked about this issue once before Jon.
On the 29th of April every year, what we have down in my community is a meeting of two cultures ceremony.
That’s the day that Sir James Cook turned up at Kurnell, and that is a respectful, positive, celebration that we have which brings together Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians.
We’ve been doing it for years.
It’s quite possible to do that you know.
We don’t have to have a fight about it, you can bring people together.
That’s all I’m saying.
And everyone wants to go and have a big blue about this.
You don’t have to, we can accommodate everybody.
Jon you’re being very cynical today mate.
I mean Tony Abbott has showed a passion for Indigenous children’s education throughout his entire public life.
So yeah, I’ve asked Tony to go and help make sure we get good policy there to get Indigenous kids into school.
I mean what’s the problem with that mate?
I’ve got an Indigenous Minister in Nigel Scullion who is working on broader indigenous issues, now I’ve got an Education Minister that’s focusing on this.
There is no lack of effort.
And if I got someone in my team, whether it is Tony who has a passion and a knowledge of these things, who goes and spends a week of his own time, has for years, up working with teachers aides in Indigenous areas.
Well why wouldn’t I ask him to do something?
Of course I do, and I’ll be there with Tony, I’ll be there with Nige.
I’ve been there myself in previous portfolios and I’ve learned a lot from doing that.
I am the sort of person that likes to roll my sleeves up, get there and understand it firsthand.
And that’s what I’ve always done in all my portfolios, Jon, so absolutely I will and I look forward to doing that.
The Attorney General is currently looking at some alternative ways of addressing these matters and I will keep doing that work.
No I don’t believe so because we’ve had record jobs growth.
The reason the welfare spending has come down Jon is because people have got into jobs and we’ve tightened up on the abuse of the system.
So we’ve done the right thing by taxpayers, we’ve done the right thing by people who aren’t in work by getting them into work.
The best form of welfare is a job, I’ve always believed that and that’s what our Government has been delivering for five years.
Well I’ve increased funding for homelessness.
I made homelessness funding through the National Partnership Agreement on homelessness permanent.
It used to be a year to year proposition and I made that permanent as Treasurer in my last Budget and we’re very committed to homelessness.
we’ve set up the National Housing Financial Investment Corporation to provide low-cost finance to affordable housing developments through community housing associations.
We’ve provided tax concessions for investment in affordable housing and social housing projects.
So Jon we have done quite a lot on this area and I want to see us continue to do more and work with the states and territories but particularly the sector to ensure that the money that is spent on homelessness meets the mark.
But the truth is, the number of unemployed people in Australia since the last election has gone down, not up.
Yeah and I don’t know much about this Jon, so..
No I didn’t, I just..
Oh I think that’s rubbish Jon.
Everyone who goes to the footy sort of, you know, wants to watch the game and you know, have a bit of skin in the game.
And look, I’ve been going for Western Australia for a long, long time and I have a great affection for them and I’ve met some of the guys over there.
So look, I wish them well but I haven’t got a team in the AFL, I’m not about to get one.
I mean Robert Menzies didn’t have an NRL team.
Well we actually were playing rugby league back then.
Well there wasn't an AFL back in Menzies’ time..
And good for him, I go and watch the Sharks every week, so look, every time they’re playing at home as well I’ll be there.
Maybe if it wasn’t Collingwood.
Maybe if it was one of the others, but…
Maybe not the only thing Jon, who knows.
Look forward to it, good on you Jon.
Well that was exciting.
That rig was what I would call a big unit, I thought that was very exciting.
I also want to thank Gladys Berejiklian for the great work we’ve been doing together as a state and a Commonwealth.
I’ve already made mention in my earlier remarks about the former Prime Ministers and their role in bring us to where we are today and Paul Fletcher the former Minister who did so much great work in this area.
Stuart, it’s great to have you here with us today, a champion of Western Sydney.
So why don’t we just go straight to questions?
She is represented today by the Minister.
Today is a Commonwealth Government announcement, that’s what we’re doing here today.
So I’d have to refer you back to her office.
I’d have to direct you to her office.
I’ve got no idea, I’m not in the NSW Parliament.
I don’t stick my nose in other parliaments’ business.
I think today is a very exciting day for Australia.
What we’re announcing today is the Commonwealth kicking this project off.
You’re on the Commonwealth site, and it’s the Commonwealth Government’s initiative to get this happening.
Over $5 billion invested in making this happen, and it’s great to have Stuart here who has been a champion of this project for a very long time.
Because frankly, people kept kicking it down the road for too long and our Government didn't.
People talked a big game on Western Sydney Airport for years and years and years.
And our Government stopped talking and started doing and that's what we've been doing for the last five years, is getting to this very day.
We started right off the blocks, we had to resolve the initial issues around who could do it and in what circumstances and we were able to resolve that.
Then we got the Corporation together, and then we got moving and today, we've been able to get to this point within five years of being elected.
I think that's a real testimony to our determination as a Government over that period of time to make Western Sydney Airport a reality.
Many of the issues will still require a lot of close community consultation and working together.
But you know, it's a huge project and huge projects require you to work through a lot of issues.
We're not scared of big projects, we're not scared of investing in the nation's future.
We're absolutely passionate about it.
So we will take on all of those challenges.
Others in the past have run away from Western Sydney Airport because it was all just too hard.
Our Government has actually been committed to it from to get-go.
We're making it happen.
This is a reality.
This is actually now finally happening.
I mean, this issue has been around longer than I have been living on the planet.
And you know, it's great to see this happening.
Maybe it took a Gen-Xer to finally get us there.
But look, everyone has been involved in getting us to this point in our Government over the last five years.
And it's so exciting to now see these dozers moving.
22 million cubic metres of earth is going to be moved around on this site and I think that’s tremendously exciting.
For all who believed, all who had a vision about this, that vision is now a reality here in Western Sydney.
I'm just excited it's happening.
I really am.
Because as I said in my earlier remarks, I have had an interest in seeing this happen since in early 1990s when I worked in the tourism industry.
I have always known how important it is.
I’ve also known how important it is representing a part of Sydney that I’ve seen an airport there over many, many years become the heart and soul of its economy.
I know what can be achieved here for the Western Sydney economy, because I know what it's achieved in my backyard in southern Sydney.
This is the biggest game-changer I think for the city of Sydney since, you know, we built the Harbour Bridge.
That’s how big a deal this is.
We'll have more announcements about what we’re doing in all of these areas.
We're totally committed to the success of this airport and what is required to make it a success.
That is a constant, daily project.
To make it work.
Now we're committed to making it work.
We're working with the State Government who is committed to making it work.
We're committed to others who are here, the councils and others who are making it work.
Not far from here, if you go down to Liverpool, Western Sydney University has actually built a vertical campus in Liverpool because of this.
The reason they decided to go and invest in Liverpool was because this was happening.
That's what I mean by game-changing, city-changing infrastructure investments.
It is leading investment right across Western Sydney and the other infrastructure will come.
It will be planned and provided and done in partnership because everyone is committed to making this work.
And there will be people who will complain along the way, and there will be people who will raise concerns and that's fair enough.
There will be concerns and there will be complaints to be addressed, but you don't stop.
That's how great cities are built, by doing this.
I'm just sticking to my job mate, basically.
My job is to ensure that our Government continues to deliver a stronger economy, to guarantee the essentials that Australians rely on, to keep Australians safe, and importantly, to keep Australians together.
This project here, I think, is going to tick all three of those boxes.
It will bring people together here in Western Sydney, as Tudgey was saying, and I know that Stuart is passionate about this as well, to be able live, work and play here in Western Sydney.
Not to have to be on that commute into the city.
I mean, that's how the city is being reshaped and what the State Government is doing up around in the north-west as well, they’ve got the south-west, all of these corridors for growth, and I know what Alan is working on, particularly down in Melbourne, where there's similar growth corridors where we have to plan for that.
In south east Queensland, massive challenges that we have, but our investments in the M1 and north of the Bruce Highway as well, coming out of Brisbane, you know, this is a Government that understands what you need to do to make our cities work better.
You bust congestion.
You build the infrastructure.
You manage the population growth and make sure it gets to the places where it needs to and doesn’t apply the pressures where it causes concern on services.
So that’s what our Government is doing.
Well the ABC Board, that’s their job, to decide how well that show’s being run.
They’ve made a decision about that and it's for them now to go through the process and recommend a new appointment.
Well I spoke to the Communications Minister last night who advised me about the decision of the Board.
Let's not forget, they're an independent board.
It's their job.
It’s their job and they will need to have gone through all the proper processes to make the decision they have.
I want to see an ABC that's strong and doing its job and that's well run and the Board does as well, that's what they’re responsible for.
I’ll hold them to account for that.
Well, I’ve always thought Jen’s pavs were popular, but you know clearly they were more popular than I thought.
It's not for me to agree or not agree, it's their job.
They’ve made their decision and they're responsible for it.
All I know is that if Bill Shorten is Prime Minister, everyone is going to be paying higher taxes.
The economy will not grow as strongly.
What I do know about Bill Shorten is he thinks he's already got the job.
Bill Shorten thinks he is already there.
He's strutting around, whether it’s Melbourne or Sydney or Brisbane or anywhere else around the country, as if he's already in the job.
Ultimately they're matters for the Speaker.
I thought the Speaker last night provided I think, some good responses and some good measured comments, as Smithy always does.
I think Tony Smith has been an outstanding Speaker of the House of Representatives.
He's well-respected right around the chamber.
\sI thought it was interesting in the piece last night that they were able to bring in the strawberries bill, which showed that for all the to-ing and fro-ing, we were able, last week to get a bill through the House in about 36 hours, to deal with an issue of real concern to Australians.
Marise is of course an active supporter of the airport.
I‘ll tell you who hasn't been for the airport; the shadow treasurer has been against this airport.
The Member for Chifley has been against this airport.
There are many Labor members of federal Parliament who have been against the airport.
That's for them, they can explain that to the people.
But today is not a day for that.
Today is a day to say; "How good is this?
Welcome to the future of Sydney.
” We're really pleased to be stepping up and doing our part as a Government.
Our Government has delivered on our promise to get this project off the ground.
We keep our promises.
We're going to keep keeping our promises and demonstrating to the Australian people that we’re right there for them, we’re on their side.
You only have to look around at whats happening here today to see just how true that is.
So thanks very much for your attention, a great day.
Cheers.
Thanks David.
Yeah, we do.
That’s right, I spoke to Bill about it yesterday and that support is there.
So we will introduce the laws this morning.
No one is going home until they’re passed.
I imagine that will happen with that support, speedily through the Parliament.
This is an important preventative legislation as well, because as you just said, many of the things we’re seeing are pranks and things like this.
One of the other laws we’re passing today is that if people do this recklessly, as opposed to with serious intent, they will also face potential prison terms for that type of offence.
So if any of you are doing and thinking of doing that and thinking it’s a laugh, it’s not funny.
It’s very serious and it carries very serious penalties.
That’s right.
That's the very clear message.
That’s why we’re moving very urgently to make sure this is passed through the Parliament ASAP.
So we appreciate the support of Parliament for doing that.
You know, you’ve got to take action quickly on these things.
That's what we’re doing.
Yeah, well you might be able to see behind that hay truck behind us.
There is this quite ridiculous law which says that the truck width is about 2.
5 metres, and you put the hay on it and once you travel for a while, it spreads out at the bottom and when they hit a border, they can get a fine.
Or, they have to apply for permits so it can be more than 2.
5 metres.
So, we’re just changing that rule, changing that law right across the country for the states.
The states have signed up for this, so there won’t be a need for that anymore.
That will remove the need for a 6,000 permits a year.
It just means that those getting hay to where it’s needed, they can keep on trucking.
They don’t have to stop.
Well David, you wouldn’t expect me to discuss national security issues in an interview like this or anywhere else.
The Pacific is a very high-priority area of strategic national security interest for Australia.
We work very closely with all our Pacific partners.
That’s why we have the Pacific Island Forum recently, we showed a lot of support there.
We’ll continue to do that.
But I’m not going to comment on speculation on national security issues, that would not be appropriate.
G’day Ray, nice to be talking.
It’s been a while mate.
Mate, it was a while ago now but my view hasn’t changed.
It’s a big part of Australia’s energy future.
Well, Angus is bringing back a package of things for me right now.
To see how we can get greater investment in what I call “fair dinkum power”; that’s the stuff that works when the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow.
So I’m waiting on Angus to come back to me with those options.
One of the things we will be moving to do is creating a divestment power, which is something I initiated when I was Treasurer.
The ACCC didn’t recommend it, but I thought it was necessary because the only thing I’ve ever seen make those big energy companies move is when you’ve got a big stick.
So you know, we’ve got to create the power to have that big stick.
So Angus is working away on that.
I think you’ve got a pretty clear indication from him and me about how we think things should be done.
Yeah, we want to see more fair dinkum power generated in Australia.
We want to see more investment go into it and that’s a big part of getting electricity prices down.
I’ve always said that.
That’s true.
Yeah it has, it has and I’m also pleased that Tony took up my invitation to work on something he’s massively passionate about and that is getting young indigenous kids in school.
I mean, Ray, you’ll be aware of the work that Clontarf does both in AFL and rugby –
They do a great job.
I’ve been involved with them for a long time, but getting indigenous kids to remote and regional area schools is a big part of the answer and you know, Tony is just going to do a great job on it.
That’s exactly it, mate.
That’s exactly it, I mean, we’ve got one focus and that is keep our economy strong, we’ve got to keep Australians safe and we’ve got to keep them together too.
I think people have had a gutful of all the sort of nonsense that goes on in Canberra.
I have and I know my team has and that’s why we’re just focused on delivering for your listeners.
It gets a bit willing.
Well, it does work both ways on both sides of politics.
But she was going to be endorsed as the Liberal candidate that had been made pretty clear, so it wasn’t about that.
But you know sometimes State Members of Parliament stick their nose in the business of Federal Members’ areas.
I don’t think that’s a particularly good look, that’s not how we do it around my part of town.
We both focus on our jobs and try to work closely together, which we’ve been doing together with Mark Speakman and Eleni Petinos, Craig Kelly and the local councillors there, Carmelo Pesce down in southern Sydney.
We all just work together.
But, clearly there has been a couple of issues down there and Ann has decided to retire at the next election.
That’s her call and I wish her well.
We’ll pick another great candidate for Gilmore and the South Coast area where I have got a lot of family and I know very well.
It’s usually where I go on holidays with family and have for a very long period of time.
It’s a beautiful part of the country.
So we’ll just get on with that.
I’ll leave those issues to the Party organisation.
What it’s turned out, all the issues that have been raised around these things over the last few weeks, they actually, at the end of the day have related to the Party organisation, not the parliamentary Party here in Canberra.
That’s why I have asked the Party organisation to come up with a rigorous and confidential process to deal with these things.
But I’m not going to get distracted by it.
I’ve got to focus, look through the dust and make sure we’re focusing on the things that make a big difference, like getting people’s electricity prices down.
Look, that’s true and we’ve got to do better.
I want to see more Liberal women in Parliament, but I always want the best candidate.
At Wentworth, we got the best candidate.
So I can’t complain about that, I think that’s the right outcome.
But I do want to see Liberal women going into pre-selections, being well prepared, getting good support, getting the right sort of training to go and do these jobs.
It’s like in any job, if you want someone to go a good job as a chief executive or head of HR or head of planning or finance or something, well you’ve got to get them trained and well-supported to be able to perform and secure those jobs.
So that’s where the Party organisation I think has a big job to do to get more women in Parliament.
I want the best people for the job every time there’s a preselection.
In Wentworth, that’s what we got and he’s up against what it turns out to be – I mean, look, I’ve known Kerryn Phelps for a long time, she’s not a Liberal and we know that because a former Labor staffer is running her campaign.
Well, that’s right.
It raises two questions; are they doing it to just get the Labor candidate up at the end of the day?
Which is often what Labor do, they’ll run an independent like they did down in Braddon and effectively support an independent to knock out a Liberal candidate.
We know what that’s all about.
So the only way you can ensure we continue the continuity and stability of what’s happening here for our economy as a nation, is to vote for Dave Sharma.
He’s the only Liberal candidate in that field and anyone pretending to be or thinking they might be; “Oh, I won’t cause too much mischief.
” Well, we don’t want any mischief.
We’ve got to get on with the job.
That’s what we’ll do again today.
Up, up, Cronulla.
Sadly, I would love to be there on Friday night, but I’ve got other commitments here in Sydney so I’ll be checking it out with some locals at a local pub in southern Sydney.
But I wish Flanno and Gal and all the boys, all the best.
I think it’s going to be a great game, it really is going to be a great game.
Two tremendous sides, it’ll be a great clash.
Yeah, mate of course, Ray of course.
I know you speak regularly to Pete too and you know I’m giving him 100 per cent support.
We’re not going to be intimidated by the Labor Party and following their agenda.
We’ll follow ours and get on with the job.
Thanks, Ray, cheers.
Good morning Alan.
Well the first thing is to reassure Australians about what we believe.
We have been very good at the “what” – \smillion jobs, all of the achievements we’ve had on funding, whether it’s for schools, disability schemes or all of this, we’ve been delivering as a Government.
But the “why”, the why, people want to know.
They want to be able to be assured that we believe passionately in the same things that the Australian people believe in.
That’s a fair go for those who have a go.
That you come to make a contribution not take one.
That the best form of welfare is a job.
These are the things that we believe and that will drive our policies as a Government.
Well Alan, I’ll be getting electricity prices down.
Well, we meet it in a canter.
So therefore -
Alan, just let me finish.
We meet it in a canter.
It’ll have no impact on electricity prices.
But I’ll tell you what will; Labor will legislate a 45 per cent emissions reductions target.
That will push people’s power prices up by $1,400 dollars a year.
The policies that we’re working on will see prices fall by around $400 a year and that’s just on the price guarantee.
No, no, that’s -
I’ll tell you what I’m going to do Alan.
I’m going to make decisions in the national interest.
I have to consider not just the issues here.
Let me tell you what’s happening in the Pacific.
In the Pacific, this is an issue which is incredibly important.
In the Pacific, this issue dominates their thinking and agenda.
Now, the Pacific is one of the most strategic areas of influence in our world today.
Which I don’t support, Alan.
No, no –
No, it’s going to be because of technology and people’s energy usage.
That’s what’s also changing.
I mean people’s energy usage has been changing for years.
No, it’s changing because it gets more efficient.
The devices they use, the way that they build houses these days, all of this, it’s all changing.
Alan, I plan to win the next election.
I’m not going to win the next election by fighting it on Bill Shorten’s ground.
Bill Shorten wants to have an ideological debate about climate.
I want to have a practical debate about reducing electricity prices.
So if people want to see a Liberal Party win at the next election, the thing to focus on is the practical things that reduce electricity prices.
That’s what I’m focused on.
The National Energy Guarantee legislation, which was going to legislate the Paris Target, is not going ahead.
We confirmed that decision at Cabinet last night.
I haven’t spoken to him -
I’m a merit person and the Party members will decide our candidate in Wentworth.
It’s their choice Alan.
Just like it has to be, in every single seat in the country -
Look, of course I want to see more women in the Federal Parliament.
I want to see more -
In New South Wales and in every state and territory.
We have not done as well in that area as I’d like us to do, but the Party members are the ones who have to take on that responsibility.
They’re the ones that have to make those decisions.
Well, I don’t know what ‘setup’ you’re talking about.
This is the set up, we have Party Whips, they provide the pastoral care amongst colleagues in the Parliament.
I talk to all of my colleagues and we deal with those issues, to the extent, inside the tent and inside the family -
No, look -
I’ve talked to people and some have been concerned about things that have happened in their Party divisions.
But it was a pretty torrid week a few weeks ago and the Party membership here in Canberra are getting past that and they’re getting on with the job.
Which is what I expect them to do.
Well I didn’t have to ask her, because that’s what she’s committed to do.
No, she was in Parliament yesterday.
No, she’s sitting in a different seat now because she said she’s not contesting the next election.
Yeah, no he’s been in the job one week longer than I have and last night we confirmed all of his powers through Cabinet.
The way that works is instead of having to work through umpteen different departments, he will have people working across multiple different departments answering directly into him, at the Commonwealth level.
Now, obviously he can’t -
Well, effectively that’s happening.
By putting one person in charge of a whole range of public service offices, from everything from Human Services across to the executive action -
It takes seven hours for a couple with a financial counsellor, that’s what they told me.
Yeah, it’s ridiculous.
Well, we’ve got it down by 25 per cent.
I’ve told them that’s not enough, so they’re going back to work and getting it down further.
Well, as much as I do about sheep.
Have milked one though.
Sorry.
Particularly on this issue.
Yeah, well, there’s two things here.
One is what’s driving the prices up and we all know the reason for that.
The other issue is more generally how you’re dealing with the pricing that takes place in the dairy industry.
Now, David Littleproud as you know, has been consulting with industry.
There’s not a common view about how this gets sorted.
There is not a common view about whether a levy is the way to do that.
I’m never a fan of taxes being the answer to problems.
He’s bringing that forward as a package -
No, no, I’ll tell you why I did that.
Let me tell you why I did that, because the banks actually receive, effectively, a guarantee over their operations on their funding and that’s provided by the Government.
No, I’m not.
No, I said at the time, I said what it was.
So, David’s coming back to me and Cabinet with a plan.
I’m also talking to Fiona Simson over at the National Farmers’ Federation, as you’d expect and other key stakeholders and I get it.
I mean, I used to flat down here with Bill Heffernan and most Sunday nights -
It’s like the impact of gas prices, isn’t it?
If the gas feedstock price is going into commercial, industrial businesses – you know, you ask Dick Honan about that, down on the south coast of New South Wales.
You’ve seen what his gas feedstock prices have done.
That’s why we need more gas\swhether it’s in New South Wales, Victoria or anywhere else.
I’m going to protect it.
I’ve got the report back from Philip Ruddock and I’m working through that now as we speak.
I’ll be making some announcements about that over the next few months as we get that response in place.
But I can tell you this’ people know what I said about this last year.
They heard what I said in the Parliament last year about protecting people against these very circumstances.
Now, people say: “Oh,” you know, “There’s been none of that and there’s no risk and there’s no threat and you don’t need to do anything.
Well, I disagree.
I think, if you don’t have freedom of your faith, of your belief – and in whatever religion that is – then you don’t have freedom in this country at all.
It is the most profound thing an Australian -
Well, I just might.
Alan.
Thanks a lot, Alan.
I can confirm.
Hey Amanda, how are you?
He did get Lilly and I a bucket of chips at the last game of the season that I was able to get to.
Yeah so mate, if you’re coming tonight, I owe you a bucket of chips.
Happy to return to favour.
Yes you can.
Of course you can.
Correct.
Well it was an extraordinary week.
That’s exactly the situation Jonesy, but when you find yourself in those situations and people look to you, you’ve got to step up.
That’s what I’ve done.
The last three weeks we’ve just been hard at work on pulling the team back together, getting the focus back where it needs to be.
As you know the first place I went was up to Western Queensland to talk to farmers about the drought.
I’ve been right up in North Queensland, from Cairns and down to Townsville.
In Townsville, we announced a big project up there to get the port moving.
So we’ve just been getting on with it as fast and as quickly as we can.
Sure, there’s going to be a bit of water that is still going to go under the bridge, a bit of dirty water under the bridge.
But look, that’s just how things are, and the Parliament was quite straightforward this week.
We all turned up, we won all the votes and people just got on with it.
That’s what I’m focused on doing.
Anyone who goes into the House of Representatives hopes to serve at the highest level they can, that’s true.
Anyone who tells you differently, I don’t think is being very up front with you.
But the question is how do you end up in that job?
In my case, it was quite an extraordinary series of events but I wasn’t seeking to change the leadership as everyone knows, I stood very strongly with Malcolm.
But the Party formed a different view, so then they turned to me and I took up the call.
So what matters is all our people stop talking about themselves and each other and we’re absolutely focused on what the public want; that’s the price of their mortgage, the price of their electricity, it’s the drought, all of these issues.
That’s where my head is, I’m a mortgage-belt Liberal.
Who’s there?
Peter who?
Chip buddy.
Well they’ve got to sort of come around you and you get the same security that turns up when you go into a job like this.
That happened to me many years ago when I was the Immigration Minister and we had to live with that.
With the girls, that’s a bit of a change for the family and they’ve been really good.
So at the footy, there’s a few extra seats I have to account for now, when I come.
As you know when I go along it’d just be me and Lilly or friends and we’d sit there and have a great time.
But that won’t change, you know how much I love going and doing that.
I’m going to love going out there tonight with my daughter, she’ll have her flag all ready to go tonight and looking forward to a really good game.
We’re going to miss Wade Graham though I reckon.
Yep, Josh is out, but the strength of the Sharks has that they’ve always had other who are going to step up into those roles.
That’s what they’ll be doing and I’m sure that Flanno will have them raring to go.
Well that’s why I’ve got to buy you one tonight mate, if you’re coming?
There you go, I’ll return the favour.
The Jonesy posse.
Thanks mate.
Well we’re looking at that at the moment, it’s not something we really thought much about.
The girls go to school locally and they’ll continue to do that and that’s really important.
Jen is keeping family life very much the same.
But I’ve got to tell you, I don’t know whether you saw that ACA interview where Jenny and I were interviewed and she said she wished I was a plumber.
I bumped into our plumber down at Cronulla Mall on Sunday, Warren and he looked at me and said; “Hey ScoMo, Jenny likes plumbers,” and he put his thumbs up.
So on that note, we’ll get the removal vans in this afternoon.
He’s a good plumber too, I’ve got to say and much better him doing it than me.
They do well, they work hard so good for them.
Will do, absolutely.
Absolutely will do that and we’ve got Dave Sharma who’s been selected as the Liberal candidate in Wentworth last night and he’s a great guy.
He’s a former Australian ambassador to Israel and he’s got a lot of experience.
He’s actually got three daughters, but two of them the same age as mine.
I think he’s going to do a great job there.
As people know, I’ve always wanted to see more women in Parliament and more women winning Logies too, Amanda.
But you know, you’ve always got to pick the best candidate.
That’s how we do things and I think Dave’s going to do a great job.
Thanks for having me on.
You going to be there tonight Jonesy?
Excellent.
Well I’ll send you a text and mate, come round and I’ll buy you those chips.
Thanks guys.
I’m good, good to see you.
That’s right.
Look, I’ve been supporting Ann for a long time, ever since she’s been in the Parliament.
We are good mates and I know her part of the world very, very well.
I’ve got a lot of family who live down that way and Jo Gash before her was a great member and they were good friends as well.
But you know sometimes people, they can find this job just a bit too much at times without that support locally from some of the local Party members that she’s identified.
That’s unfortunate, that’s really a matter for the Party organisation to sort out.
I’d love to see Ann continue, but you’ve got to respect the decisions people make.
She’s a good mate, I wish her all the best.
I know she’s going to remain here and work hard for her constituents between now and the next election when the Party will be going forward to select a new candidate there in the seat of Gilmore.
As you know, it’s a very tight seat, it always has been.
But it’s been well-served by the Liberal Party going back to when Jo Gash first won the seat back from Labor many, many years ago.
Well, look it is a very tight seat.
It always has been and it’s had some very good members.
There are a lot of real important issues down there, whether they’re for seniors or whether they’re for families or for veterans, or indigenous issues that need to be addressed there.
A lot of youth unemployment, I know that’s something that Ann’s been very passionate about.
Local infrastructure issues, all of that will continue to get attention from our Government and I think Ann has worked very hard for her community.
We’ll be seeking to have a candidate who will go above and beyond what she’s been able to achieve, in the same way that Joanna Gash before her did as well.
We’re spending $11.
2 billion every year on this and that’s of itself a significant investment by the Australian community to recognise the service of our veterans.
These days obviously, our veterans are those who have been serving most recently.
In my own community in southern Sydney, with the Holsworthy Base not far outside of my electorate, there are a lot of returned service people living in my community.
I’ve listened to their stories and those of their families and in fact Bree Till, whose husband Brett Till was killed back in 2008, I think it was and we’ve been supporting that family for a long time.
Bree has been a great advocate for the cause of families who are affected by our engagements.
But a lot of local people are supportive of the need for these mental health services.
Now, we’ve been investing more into mental health services.
You serve one day and you get access to mental health services.
Just one day and that’s what we do.
As we should do that.
There’s an added, I think, obligation when we’re talking about our veterans.
What I’d add to that is we’re also ensuring that we’re trying to get veterans into work, when they come out.
For some, it is a huge transition, particularly for those who have served in multiple rotations of service overseas.
“Normal” doesn’t mean the same thing anymore, when you’ve done that.
There’s a very hard adjustment.
For others who have served in our military, they make that transition a little more easily.
What we do know is that their skills and their abilities are very high.
But often it’s the adjustment process of moving out of the military environment into a civilian environment.
Now I’ve seen, whether it’s Soldier On that has been dealing with those adjustments for individuals, or other work programmes that have been helping people make that transition.
It is achievable, there’s no doubt about that and we’ve just got to keep doubling down and doing more and getting it right.
But there’s no question I think about the commitment from anybody.
The veteran-centric reforms that we’ve putting in place over the last few Budgets are all about trying to better connect with our modern day veterans.
One of the key things that came up was the call wait times.
We invested a lot in trying to reduce those call wait times, because you know, those call wait times, if they’re too long, that can have the worst possible of outcomes.
So there’s been a lot of work put in to revitalise the whole infrastructure investment platforms, the ICT platforms, to make sure that they can be more effective and more efficient.
Now Darren Chester is a very committed individual as our Minister for Veterans Affairs.
I think he’s doing a very good job, but it’s very tough job.
Because the expectations are rightly up here of veterans and of the community.
It’s a very high standard we have to keep aiming for.
So they have my commitment, they have the commitment of our entire Government, but you’ve just got to keep making the investments.
You’ve got to connect in with the modern day veteran as they’re making their adjustment to civilian life.
Now I’ll tell you another programme we did which started under my treasurership.
This actually relates to the children of veterans.
It’s a passion of mine, Kookaburra Kids have been running respite camps for young people who have come from families suffering from mental illness.
A number of years ago there were some kids who came along to the camp and the reason they were there is because their father has suffered from PTSD from service overseas.
Now the camp didn’t quite work the same way for kids of veterans.
So what we’ve done is we’ve invested in taking that programme and applied it particularly to kids of veterans who suffer from PTSD.
Now in some cases these are servicemen and women who have come home, but they’ve never come home.
They literally have not walked back in the front door of the family home and their kids are saying, “Where’s dad?
Where’s mum?
”
It’s not going to change electricity prices one jot.
What I’ve said very carefully is that if it’s not going to make any difference to electricity prices, so why don’t you just get out of it anyway?
Well, let’s take a look to the south-west Pacific.
This is the number one issue of our Pacific neighbours, our strategic partners, our strategic security partners.
This is their number one issue.
There are a lot of influences in the south-west Pacific and I’m not going to compromise Australia’s national security by walking away from a commitment that was made a number of years ago to that target.
It’s been there for the last four years or three years, just over three years.
Getting out of it won’t make electricity prices go down, but it will highlight a number of other important risks for us which I’m not prepared to countenance in the national interest.
So that’s the reason for my decision.
As Prime Minister, I have to make decisions in the national interest.
I know a lot of people have concerns about it.
But frankly, at the end of the day, we’re going to meet this thing in a canter in 2030.
We’ve met the other two in a canter, 2021 included, that’s going to be smashed.
So the question is, why would you do it when it’s not going to make any difference to the electricity prices, but it could potentially also create some serious issues for us in managing our strategic interests in the region?
But that won’t be required either.
I mean, this is what I’ll do; I’ll get electricity prices down, how about that?
We’ll get the default price in place, which was policy of the Government, which ensures that once you come off your special offer, your price doesn’t go up to the ratcheted up price, it comes down to the default price.
It’s that default price which now determines where all the discounts go from.
Putting a big stick on the electricity companies to make sure they do the right thing and that will include legislated powers for divestment if they do the wrong thing.
Thirdly, get some investment in some fair dinkum power generation.
That’s what you actually have to do to get electricity prices down.
Engaging in the climate wars may tickle the ears of the ideologues, but frankly it makes no difference to what’s going to happen with electricity prices.
But I’ll tell you what will make a difference; if you have an emissions reduction target of 45 per cent.
Okay, that’s big.
26 per cent is a low alcohol beer, 45 per cent is a full schooner of single malt, when it comes to it’s impact on electricity prices.
Now that means $1,400 extra for every family in the country.
That’s Labor’s plan.
If people want to get concerned about emissions reductions targets, think about what Bill Shorten is going to do, because that will increase your electricity prices.
Whatever it is for fair dinkum power.
That’s certainly my plan.
Well, Angus is bringing back the first instalment of that.
I’ve outlined the three key things that need to be done to achieve that.
The third piece is all very much about whether that’s guaranteeing the take-out price on the back end of the contracts or other things that can be done to firm up the investment proposal to get these projects happening.
Now it also requires people wanting to invest at the same time.
So that’s where that investment will come from, that we want to create the right climate for that.
We want it to be in fair dinkum power, we want the reliability guarantee, that’s still important.
That’s before the states.
We do want to ensure there is contracted reliability in the electricity market, because where there is more contracting, there is more certainty and that means you don’t get affected by the price spikes.
So we do want to see that happen.
The measures are there.
Bill Shorten wants to legislate.
You know he’s talking about; “Oh, we’re going to revisit the NEG.
” This is what that means - when I take out that BS - Bill Shorten, that is, I should stress – test on this.
He’s saying that he wants to legislate a Paris target of 45 per cent.
So if you’re worried about Paris, think about that; a legislated Paris target of 45 per cent.
I’m not legislating any Paris target, none.
Well, it’s been a long time since I’ve been in one, Paul, probably you too.
There’s free speech for some and not for others.
I think that’s been an issue.
What I’ve always noticed from the Left is that they’re happy to have free speech, so long if you agree with them.
If you have a different view to them, then apparently you’re a bigot.
That’s what universities are for.
Now you and I would have no truck with hate speech or whatever, however that’s described –
People should treat each other with respect and people should act in accordance with Australians values.
We’re a very tolerant society.
That doesn’t mean, as someone once famously said, you’ve got to tolerate the intolerable.
But at the same time, so long as people act in accordance with those core beliefs and values, there should be free-ranging ideas.
Of course.
True, I cancelled, I think, some people’s visas for doing that.
Let me give you this example.
I send my kids to a Christian school, I think that Christian school should be able to ensure they can provide education consistent with the Christian faith and teaching that I believe as a parent.
That’s why I’m sending them there.
I don’t think that school should be told who they can and can’t employ, or have restrictions on them in ensuring that they’re delivering to me – the parent, their client, their customer – what I’ve invested in for my children’s education.
Here’s another one.
Let’s say you have some particular religious views about something or other that’s deeply held within your faith.
It doesn’t contravene national laws or anything like this and a company has a particular policy which doesn’t sit well with your view.
You’re a totally competent person to sit on that board of a public company.
Why should you be denied a directorship or a partnership, indeed in a law firm or an accountancy firm, just because you happened to have expressed on Facebook or somewhere about a particular religious belief?
That shouldn’t happen in this country.
Now, I’m not saying it is, necessarily and people say; “Oh well, if there’s not this great problem, why do you need to do it?
” Can they guarantee me it won’t happen in the future?
I’ve seen where this issue has gone over the last ten years and issues of freedom of speech, I’ve seen where they’ve gone over the last ten years.
Not quite sure I’m pleased with the trajectory.
So there’s nothing wrong with a bit of preventative regulation and legislation to ensure that your religious freedom in this country.
I mean, what’s more fundamental that that?
Me too.
This is a noxious problem.
Sitting in my office, I’ve had it for many years, is the plaque of a young girl Shirley Ngalkin.
Shirley was raped and drowned in a creek in one of these communities.
I keep it there as a constant reminder to me of that challenge.
This is one of the reasons I asked Tony to take on this job as a Special Envoy on Indigenous education and getting kids into school.
There are many things we can do, but you know, getting kids in school and keeping them in school and ensuring they’re getting an education and that their dreams can become realities - I’ve seen this through my involvement in the Clontarf Foundation as well - seeing how those boys’ lives are changed.
This is a big opportunity.
I think you’ve just got to keep trying to tackle problem after problem after problem.
Now, I know how passionate Tony is about this.
I’ve been up in communities with him when there’s no cameras around, sitting down and talking about these issues.
I want him to be able to have free reign on this.
I don’t want him to be constrained – terrifying thought - as a Minister trying to defend Government policy and all this sort of thing.
He needs to sit down and hear it straight and tell it straight.
That’s why I’ve got Barnaby doing a very similar job when it comes to our drought relief and recovery plan.
I think both of them, with their standing in the Australian community and their skills - and Tony particularly in this area - I think he’s going to do a cracker of a job.
He’s not just going to serve it up to me, he’s going to serve it up to, I assume, the states as well and be able to look at these problems above and outside Government.
With his unique experience I think he’s going to add a lot there.
Dear oh dear.
Time to end the interview.
Cheers, Paul, thanks mate.
Thank you very much, Leigh.
Great to be here.
Look Leigh, I didn't seek a change to the Prime Ministership.
I didn't contest the leadership on that basis.
I contested it on the basis that the Party had made a decision that they no longer were supporting the previous Prime Minister.
In that context, I stood up to continue the great work that we've been doing over the last five years, and I sought and gained their confidence to do just that.
So as I’ve said on a number of occasions, when placed in command, take charge.
I mean I’ve been part of this Government for five years.
I’m very proud of what we’ve achieved and as the next generation of leadership, together with Josh Frydenberg, I’m pleased to take that agenda forward.
Well, I was not the one who sought to change it Leigh and this is my point.
I think, sadly, over the last ten years there have been too many of these changes and they’ve occurred on both sides of politics.
Sadly I don't think Australians are as shocked by these things as they used to be.
I know they’re still just as disappointed and I think -
They can be.
But what matters to them now is, where we go from here.
The Party Room decide who the leader of the Liberal Party should be.
They formed the view that they no longer supported the leadership of Malcolm Turnbull and they voted on that.
That was declared vacant and in that context, I put my hand up to take us forward.
That's what I'm now doing.
So there is a continuity with what we have achieved over the last five years.
As I've been setting out, my plan is focused on three key things to make an even stronger Australia.
To keep the economy strong, to ensure we keep Australians safe and to ensure we bring and keep Australians together.
Well, I didn't oppose it.
That's right and as John Howard always said, the leadership of the parliamentary Liberal Party is the gift of the parliamentary party.
They have chosen to make that change.
In that context, I put my hand up after they decided they didn't want to proceed with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.
Well there's a continuity, there's no doubt about that.
There's an absolute continuity, I mean, I stood with Tony Abbott when we stopped the boats.
I stood with Malcolm Turnbull as we balanced the Budget.
Now, as we go forward we continue to keep our economy strong, keep Australians safe.
But I have a very strong focus on how we need to bring the country together.
When placed in command, take charge.
How’s that for candid?
That's what I'm saying and that’s what I’m doing.
There are important responsibilities that Australians expect from me.
I said very clearly; number one, we need to sort out our coordination to the drought.
We need to get electricity prices down.
I have been very quick to highlight the key challenges.
Congestion-busting in our cities to deal with population growth.
Ensuring that we have our energy policy clear on what we can do, what we are not going to do.
Dealing with other issues such as the pension age, which was expected as a policy to go to 70.
I have made that change, got it back to 67 which is where Labor legislated it to.
We're making decisions, we're getting on with it.
No, but equally that is a matter for the organisational wing of the Liberal Party, but it's never something I have supported.
Because I believe in any political organisation, it should be a matter of one's own effort and exertion and credibility and merit.
Well, Julie Bishop was invited to remain as the Minister for Foreign Affairs in my Government and she made her choice and I respect her choice.
But on top of that, what I am focusing on with Kelly O’Dwyer and other members of the team, Senator Payne, is to ensure that we remove the obstacles that are preventing women from going forward.
I don't believe quotas are the way you remove obstacles -
Well Leigh many years ago Christine McDiven, the first female President of the Federal Liberal Party, put in place training programs for women to help get them to a position where they won pre-selections, adjusted to parliamentary life, understood the things that would be expected of them and how they would perform.
Now, the result of that back in 1996 under John Howard, was a record intake of women.
It's a very similar, practical exercise and this is what Kelly O'Dwyer has been working on.
It's a matter of supporting women throughout the pre-selection process, to identify, to encourage, to support and to recruit and then to support them through that process.
Then when they get into Parliament, ensure they're getting the support they need to do the job.
I mean it's a very practical exercise.
There have been no names provided to me about any of that.
What I -
When I spoke to Senator Gichuhi she made it very clear to me that in terms of the events in Canberra and the spill of the leadership, she told me very plainly that she was not bullied by anybody here in Canberra, in relation to that matter.
There are some other issues that, when I've got into detail of this issue with several of my colleagues, of matters that relate to the party divisions and how things are dealt with there.
But this is a very torrid business, Leigh, as we know.
What I do know of the events of a couple of weeks ago, was that my standard, my example, I think more than met what people would expect.
That's what I'm doing going forward.
At the same time, there was no sort of gender-specific actions that related to what some would call very intense lobbying.
Which is fairly normal in the political process, albeit not edifying.
Well, that is what we signed up to and as Prime Minister, I agree with that -
Particularly in relation to the threats and the understanding with our Pacific peoples.
We’ve worked very closely with them on those issues and we continue to provide them with that support.
We're also a part of the Indo-Pacific, we have a much bigger agenda –
Because we’ve already made our commitments to the targets.
We’ve already met our first range of targets in Kyoto 1 and very comfortably.
We’re going to meet Kyoto 2 and I have no doubts about the fact that we're going to meet our targets out to 2030.
We have our commitments, we have our policies in place.
They are working and that’s –
Well, we’re reducing emissions by 26 per cent.
That’s out to 2030.
The Emissions Reduction Fund has been a key component of –
Well, that's how we're meeting our 2020 target and Melissa Price, the Minister, will be bringing forward further measures in this area to make sure we're acting consistently with our targets, Leigh.
So, what we're seeing though is a business as usual approach, a technology-driven approach, which will see us, I think, more than meet our targets out to 2030.
This is work that is continuing and that is being effective.
We have set our course on that.
I don’t believe it will have any effect on electricity prices where we have currently set our targets.
When it comes to electricity prices, we're very focused on getting them down, particularly by addressing reliable power supply.
Well, I’ve separated energy policy and climate policy, environment policy.
We’ve got our –
Our emissions reductions targets are set.
They've been the same for four years.
But we'll meet our targets.
So, the 26 per cent emissions remission target is set.
No, no, let me finish.
It's been the same for four years.
There's been no change.
The certainty is there.
We're not changing it.
So, I think people can make decisions based on what the clear statement of the Government's policy has been over four years and going forward into the future.
I don't think there's any question about it.
We haven't changed our emissions policy, Leigh.
It's the same policy that we had a month ago, it's the same policy we have now, our emissions reduction policy hasn't changed.
The certainty of that emissions policy is clear.
Leigh, that would only be a relevant factor if I was changing our emissions reduction policy, which I'm not.
The emissions reduction policy is set.
It's 26 per cent.
I don’t think I can be more clear.
To get electricity prices down, what we're not going to do is legislate a 45 per cent target, which is what Labor would do, which means the prices would go up, it's estimated, by $1,400 per household.
What we will do to get electricity prices down, in addition to guaranteeing the supply of gas into the Australian market, in addition to that, it is the safety net on price.
It is the big stick on electricity companies.
It is a better investment framework for reliable power, fair dinkum power generation into the market.
They’re completely legitimate companies which are at the centre of the Australian economy.
But as you’ve heard from many of the banks, I don't understand they’ll be continuing to make any of those donations anyway.
But I don't have any issue with legitimate companies participating in a democracy.
That’s actually not the point, Leigh.
What the point is, is that Australians want to be sure that in the future those things won't be –
I believe there could be problems in the future, I articulated those things when I spoke in the House last year.
We’ve had a process which is being pursued by Philip Ruddock, leading that expert panel, that panel has reported back to the Government.
I'm now in receipt of that report and what I can guarantee all Australians is that their religious freedoms will be protected by law if necessary.
I want parents to continue to have a complete right of choice when they send their kids to a faith-based school, that the faith-based nature of those schools is protected.
I want to make sure that if people have particular religious views, that they won't be discriminated against.
Just like people of different genders or people of races will not be discriminated against.
Religious freedom, it doesn't get more serious than that when it comes to liberties.
If you don't have the freedom to believe in your own faith, then what is liberty?
Yes, I do, because look, I worked with Roman when I was the Immigration and Border Protection Minister.
I'm disappointed that the claims that he's making now are being so palpably demonstrated to be false.
I mean they lack complete credibility.
I'm disappointed that he has made these false claims and sought to sledge the character of Peter Dutton.
What I know is this; Peter Dutton has done a great job taking over from me when I was the Immigration and Border Protection Minister.
He has done an outstanding job on securing our borders.
The Labor Party seem more intent on stopping au pairs than stopping bikie gangs and people smugglers.
I think that reflects on Labor's very weak record when it comes to border security.
Correct.
No, that's not what I was saying.
What I was saying Leigh, is as a Government we've been very good managers and we've been very practical, focusing on the things we need to do.
But what's important in politics is that people also understand the ‘whys’ behind the ‘what’.
We've been focused on doing the things, Leigh.
What I'm saying, particularly as we go forward to this next election, is I've talked about the fair go for those who have a go.
I’ve talked about the need to look after your mates with a proper safety net.
I’ve talked about the need to honour those who seek to make a contribution, rather than take one.
And importantly this, which really separates us from the Labor Party; we don't think other people have to do worse, for you to do better.
We are rejecting Labor's politics of envy and that's why we believe in lower taxes, backing small businesses.
It’s why we believe in the NDIS and guaranteeing Medicare.
People can trust us because of what we believe and what we do.
They get the full package with the Liberal and National Parties under my leadership.
Thanks a lot Leigh.
Well thanks very much, David, both as the Member for Banks and Minister.
John and Darren, it’s great to be with you here today at the business that has been your lifeblood for a generation.
It’s been passed on to the next generation, and together what you and Anne have achieved, both here in this business, and clearly raising a family and doing everything you’ve done here says everything we all know about Australian small and medium sized family businesses.
Employees who work here, some 60 of them, many of them have been here for decades.
That’s provided the provided the consistency the opportunities in life – they’ve gone to weddings, they’ve gone to all sorts of things of their staff.
That’s what family and small and medium sized businesses are like right across the country.
You know fairness in Australia is about you get a go if you have a go.
And John and Darren have been having a go and they’ve been getting a go, and we want to see those principles, those values continue to be encouraged in this country.
That’s why as Treasurer I introduced lower taxes for small and medium sized businesses and was able to get that through the Parliament.
That’s why we were able to get lower personal taxes for all employees, but particularly for those on low to middle incomes who are working right here in this business.
We believe Australians should keep more of what they earn.
That when they have a go then they get a go and they are the values and the principles that will drive my Government.
Now, I should stress that the announcement that I made with the former Prime Minister, Mr Turnbull, last week absolutely holds.
We will not be going ahead with the full component of the enterprise tax plan.
That matter, we took to the last election, we sought to get it through the Parliament, and we will not be taking the full enterprise tax plan forward that we presented to the Parliament.
The Senate has had its say on that issue.
What I know in politics is that you have to respect that once it has reached that conclusion.
We sought through every opportunity that we had to try and ensure that all businesses in Australia had more competitive tax rates.
This Senate and this Parliament has ruled its verdict on this question.
But what I will be doing with Josh Frydenberg, with Michaelia Cash, with my Cabinet team, is bringing forward a new competitive tax plan for small and medium sized businesses just like John and Darren’s here in suburban Sydney.
Because I want to make sure that they continue to get a go because they are a having a go.
So we are backing in business.
We are backing in businesses like this one to ensure that we can continue the strong jobs growth that we’ve been able to achieve.
I have served in the Abbott Government where I stood with Tony Abbott to stop the boats.
I have served in the Turnbull Government where I stood with Malcolm Turnbull where we’ve kept our economy strong and we got people into work.
And my team is standing with me now to continue all of that work and to ensure an even stronger Australia where we have a strong economy, where we keep Australians together and we keep Australians safe.
Happy to take questions but it’s great to have you here John and Darren.
They’re going ask a whole bunch of questions about plenty of other things so it’s great to have you here.
Congratulations on what you’ve achieved.
That's a matter I have been in close contact with the Attorney-General on and I’m taking his advice on those matters and the Government will deal with those matters inside its own processes.
I am saying that I have been consulting with the Attorney-General and we are dealing with those issues within our internal processes and I would not have appointed Mr Dutton to the important role he has without having considered those matters.
Now this is not a one-on-one interview and there are lots of other questions and lots of other journalists.
No, I don't accept that at all.
I have discussed this matter directly with the Attorney-General and I would not have taken the decision that I have taken without having had those discussion.
Well I have no truck with bullying or intimidation in whatever form it is.
I said the other day when it comes to keeping Australians safe - that means everything from what we do on our borders through to ensuring we speak out on things that prevent bullying in the classroom or anywhere else.
I am the father of two young daughters and I have in truck with that sort of culture or behaviour.
One of the things we are moving quickly to do is ensure we restore that strong culture in the Liberal Party and bring the party together and show the stability and unity that is necessary, that Australians are looking to me to provide.
I have spoken to Julia today and I spoke to her yesterday as well.
I think the events of the last week, they have been quite dramatic events, and all Australians looking in, I know, would have been pretty disappointed, more than disappointed, with those events.
They should also know that those events take a pretty high human toll inside the parliament.
It is a very robust discussion and I know Julia has been very concerned about that and she has raised those concerns with me.
I want to thank her for ruling out the position that she would be leaving the Parliament.
I want to thank her for strong vote of confidence she has given me in remaining in the Parliament to support my Government going forward.
As you know, Cathy McGowan today has issued a statement saying that there will be her support for confidence in the House of Representatives until the Wentworth by-election in the event that that is called once that is concluded and the writs are returned and then we will sit down and talk again.
So I thank Cathy McGowan for her support.
I have had a similar verbal assurance from Bob Katter as well so my first job has been to restore stability and get the Government back and working and my Ministers are out there doing that today, including Minister Dutton and the Attorney who are up in Queensland dealing with the Five Eyes meeting at the current time.
So I thank Julia for that and I will look closely at these issues and I have been talking very directly with my colleagues.
I have laid down the law to my Cabinet.
I have laid down the law to my Ministry and to the parliamentary secretary ranks of my Government.
They know what I expect and I have every confidence they will live up to what I expect.
The Minister for Women and I have discussed this matter as well today.
I will continue to do that with Kelly O'Dwyer but what is important right now is Julia's welfare.
I know she is going to take a bit of time out between now and when the Parliament comes back.
My first concern is for her welfare and wellbeing and she is taking the time to ensure that that is taken care of and she has my support fully in that.
So what am I doing right now?
I'm supporting Julia and reaching out to Julia and giving her every comfort and support for what has been a pretty torrid ordeal for her and I will continue to consult with my colleagues about ensuring that there can be no question about the culture of the Liberal Party.
There should not be and certainly under my authority there would have been absolutely nothing of that sort taking place.
Well you are making reference about three individuals and those allegations have not been made.
I act on facts, not on allegations.
The Chief Whip hasn't raised that with me, no.
I missed the first bit of that.
Well it is disappointing.
I wasn’t supportive of it.
I have come into the role to provide the stability and direction for the Liberal Party and the Government.
That is what I put my hand up for, and for my country.
I have stood up to serve my country.
As I said I served my country under two Prime Ministers and been able to achieve a great deal with those two Prime Ministers and I intend to put my own mark on this Government as well.
There is a continuity issue here.
There is continuity from border protection, to job creation, and where I intend to make Australia an even stronger country in the areas of our economy being strong, of Australians being safe and bringing Australians together as I bring my own party together.
What I'm doing right now is I am introducing myself to many Australians.
They want to know who I am.
They want it demonstrated to them that they know that I'm on their side.
That's what I will be doing in the weeks and months ahead.
I have already said clearly I'm focused on the priorities of the drought.
That's where I was up in western Queensland earlier this week.
I met with the National Farmer's Federation yesterday and talked through those sensitive issues.
I met with Angus Taylor yesterday on the critical issue of getting electricity prices down.
Here, right here at Galvatech, they have seen their power and gas bills go through the roof.
The actions of the Government that I was part of to ensure that gas did not go offshore and stayed here and we secured the gas supply of this country.
I was as much part of that decision when it was made as ensuring that it sticks now as Prime Minister today.
I am going to be the Prime Minister for getting electricity prices down.
Angus Taylor is the Minister for getting electricity prices down and that is a core focus of my Government particularly in the early days.
Well, the short answer is question.
Of course Mr Shorten and the Labour Party are going to try and disrupt, they’re going to try to create instability, they are going to try to make hay.
Bill Shorten is taking this next election for granted.
Bill Shorten is sitting there wondering what curtains are going to be put in his office and he is wondering about who he is going to appoint to be Governor-General.
Those are not things I am thinking about at all.
What I am thinking about is lower electricity prices, I’m thinking about the drought, I’m focused very much on resolving the issues around school education.
I am very focused and will be taking briefings from our new… working with our new assistant minister for the NDIS about the NDIS being delivered on the ground.
I am focused on the NBN and its roll out and making sure that that momentum is continued.
I am focused on the things that are going to impact on Australian's daily life right now.
Bill Shorten can take the next election for granted if he likes.
He can behave in that way, that's up to him.
I am introducing myself to Australians as I move around the country so people know exactly where I stand and the values and beliefs that I hold dear and that will drive me every day I have the privilege to serve in this office.
What I've been talking to the former prime minister about, Mr Abbott, has been a role, which I am very pleased that he has responded positively too, which is about getting Indigenous young people into school.
What more important job could there be for that for those Indigenous young people.
I am sure there is not a person in the country that would not agree that doing something to ensure we keep and get Indigenous young people into school, Indigenous kids into school, is something we should all work on.
I would say, that's what we've got to focus on.
I do.
I have known Tony Abbott a very long time.
I have worked with Tony Abbott alongside him on some important portfolios.
I remember a number of visits I made with Tony to central Australia on many issue, many years ago when I was a shadow housing minister and we walked from town to town and we sat in the dust, there were no cameras around, we were just sitting in the town camps in Alice Springs, I have been in Bamaga with him, I’ve been in the Torres Straight with him.
I know how passionate Tony Abbott is about changing generationally the life circumstances for Indigenous Australians.
One of my areas of passion has been the Clontarf Foundation.
That is all about getting indigenous boys into school and having them have a different path in life.
When you focus on the outcomes, which I know is what Tony is doing, that makes him the right person.
Just like, for me, focusing on those outcomes, that is where we need to go.
So with that…
Well, you know, they have fronted up on this issue and I'm always going to be a passionate Sharkies fan but everyone has got to play by the rules.
That is an important culture and value for us too.
You have got to play by the rules.
That is for the NRL to sort out.
My job is to run the country.
I will leave it to Peter Beattie to run the NRL and I’ll leave it to Flanno and all the boys down there to make sure they are doing the right thing and I'm sure they will have a great win against the Bulldogs this weekend.
Thanks David and it’s great to be here with the Deputy PM who was here, not here, but in other drought-affected areas with the previous PM.
Our Government under Malcolm Turnbull and today under me is 100 per cent focused on what we need to do as a nation together to ensure there is not just relief from the drought but recovery from the drought.
I’m accompanied also today by Major General Stephen Day who I will speak about in a second.
I particularly want to say thank you to Annabel and Steve for inviting us to your home today.
It’s not just their home today, it’s been their home in the Tully family for five generations.
They were here some 10 or 15 years after Burke and Wills went through this strip.
This is a long-term generational farming family that we have come to visit today.
The reason I wanted to come to Queensland today was because this is an area that has been dealing with drought not for one year, not for two years - for six years.
I want to show you something Steve just showed me.
This property in 2016, just over there, that's what it looked like.
This is successful country when it comes to what they've been running for five generations.
This is what we've got to keep in mind because that says hope, that says the future, that says why these communities live here because it is sustainable, it is achievable and it's coming back.
What our challenge is, is to ensure that until it comes back, we do everything we can to ensure that these families, that these communities, that these towns get from now until then.
So today… Look, I've been in the job a couple of days.
Stephen has been in the job just over a week, so he's not too far ahead of me on this.
The reason I've asked Major General Day to continue on the work that Malcolm Turnbull asked him to start with the Deputy Prime Minister is because we need a national response to what this drought is.
It's not just in New South Wales or Queensland.
It's getting in Victoria, isn't it, Bridget?
Bridget is from Victoria.
It is getting down there into South Australia.
We all needto work together.
I said the other day that I want to have an even stronger Australia that is keeping Australians together.
Now the reason just chatting to some of the families a few minutes ago, that they're able to achieve and show the resilience that they are, not just now but over generations, is because they stay together.
We have got to stay together as a country in our support.
Governments and the Commonwealth Government have to stay together and work together to ensure that we can give the support that is necessary.
We’ve already got a number of very well-targeted initiatives that are out here.
Rod’s here, where’s the Mayor?
He’s around here somewhere.
We’re meeting with the Mayors and other Shire representatives this afternoon.
One of the things that Prime Minister
Turnbull announced just recently with the DPM was a million dollars for every single Shire Council that was affected by the drought and what that's about is putting money into potentially even the dog fencing we've been talking about or the road programs that they have or fixing up the local library or anything like that that puts money into these towns and into these areas.
We can't make it rain but what we can do is ensure that these local economies and regional economies can get from A to B and when B looks exactly like that.
Now Major General Day's job is to bring together and to provide us with a plan.
He is listening, then he will plan and then he will act.
That's how we can draw together all of the resources of Commonwealth, state, local governments and the charitable sector, everyone who is out there trying to make a difference to support the situation.
That's what Major General Day is doing.
That's what he has been tasked with.
It is an enormous task.
I have to give him the time to be able to form his plans, to get the information and ensure that he can bring back to us what we need to do to make this work.
Let me make another comment; yesterday when we announced the ministry, I will ask Michael to speak in a second, we talked about the role that Barnaby Joyce would have.
Barnaby will provide a connection point between Major General Day and the Government, out there listening to people, providing that feedback directly.
He is not there as the Minister.
He is not there to defend government policy.
He's there to hear about what the issues are and to be able to be trusted and faithfully relay that back to us so we can make those decisions.
We need someone to be there who people can talk directly to and then they can make sure we know what we need to do, whether it's Major General Day or it’s Michael or it's I or David or the whole team.
Anyway, over to you, Michael.
Stephen wanted to say a couple of things.
Thanks mate, I really appreciate it, and thanks for having us here.
It was great to catch up with Hugo, I enjoyed his class.
That was a bit of fun, they got a bit of a surprise.
I can assure you I learn something every day!
If you don't have that attitude, you never do.
So, questions.
What upsets me about that is they don't know what that looks like.
While it was only a couple of years ago here, they haven't seen yet what has kept their parents here and their families here for long periods of time.
They're here basically on faith from what mum and dad have told them about this lifestyle.
That's what makes me sad about it.
When I was talking to Annabel before, there’s a lot of hardship here, there’s a lot of struggle, they're incredibly resilient people, and they’re not complaining about anything, they're getting on and doing it.
Doing a lot.
We have looked at innovation, the works they're doing, they're getting on with it, they’re just getting on and doing a lot.
We’ve looked at the innovation, looked at the works they’re doing, they’re just getting on with it.
But when you talk about your kids, it's another matter altogether.
What we need to do isn't just about dog fencing, and all of that's important, but kids still have to go to school and getting kids to school can't be causing stress and heartbreak for parents.
So there's no end, it would seem, at the moment to the issues that we have to sort out and coordinate here and that's why Major General Day's job is so important.
It's to work across everything from education to human services to coordinating with the States, to my old department in Treasury and the Tax Office and places like that.
It's a whole-of-government response and then working with the States.
I think that's what frustrates people.
They look at governments going, "Why aren't you talking to each other?
" We are going to try and talk to each other a lot better because that's a big part of the solution, all the governments working together.
I spoke to Annastacia Palaszczuk before coming out here today.
We had a good chat about that.
I spoke to Gladys Berejiklian during the course of the week in New South Wales.
I was actually talking to Mark McGowan just the other night.
They're a long way from the drought but that's where the feed is coming from.
There is a lot of connections on how we deal with that.
For those kids, I want them to see that pasture again.
I don't think people out here care one way or the other whether it's that.
But I care what they think.
I don’t think that’s the issue.
Yeah sure.
The person you should be asking is Steve.
Well let's listen to Steve first.
You are talking about right here.
I mean we’re talking about… climate is changing, everybody knows that.
I know what you're trying to ask, OK?
I don't think that's part of this debate.
That's my point.
If people want to have a debate about that, fine.
It's not a debate I've participated a lot in in the past because I'm practically interested in the policies that will address what is going on here right and now.
I'm interested in getting people's electricity prices down and I'm not terribly interested in engaging in those sorts of debates at this point.
I understand the arguments about all that.
I understand the positions that are held.
But practically, it doesn't help me a lot in terms of working out how you make a human services form which is too long and invasive and takes people a lot of time to fill out.
That debate doesn't help that form get filled out any sooner and it certainly doesn't help ensuring that you are keeping dogs out of your pasture lands and things like that.
So, I'm going to leave that debate for another day.
Well I’ll give you an example.
In my electorate in southern Sydney, you know, I've come from the quarter acre out to 180,000 acres out here - that's a big difference for a start.
We had the Kurnell refineries closing down.
They were a big employer in my electorate and that was managed over a period of time.
Now the people that used work there, because we live in a large city, means that they’ve been able to pick up jobs elsewhere in the city.
But these economies and these communities don't have those same sort of options.
And these communities are providing the food, they’re providing the wool, they’re providing what Australians need.
And, you know, it is different in different parts of the country.
As a result of that, I think that means there's a special responsibility here.
Not just to ensure that they can be successful - I'm looking at some of the innovation they've been putting on around this property, but this is a way of life that is important to Australia's future.
I want to make sure that way of life continues to be preserved as I know Michael and Bridget and my Liberal colleagues feel the same way.
There has been significant action when it comes to farm household assistance…
We are already providing farm household assistance and Michael and others can speak to other items.
There’s a number of things we are doing and we are $1.
19 billion in terms of financial assistance that's gone in as part of a drought response over many years now.
It has many components.
The most recent one was the $70 million-odd that was announced for funding grants directly into local councils to ensure those economies could be sustainable.
That's incredibly important.
So look, where there is a problem and where we think there is a solution that requires that type of support, then you'll do it.
If Major General Day turns up and says, as part of his plan, we need to coordinate financial assistance in this way as opposed to that way, well that's what he is there to tell us and we can respond on that and act on that.
I'm not pretending to come here and suggest we have all the answers to all the problems.
I got a great text from Barnaby last night on day one, as you expect, he has given me quite a list of things that he reckons.
We're already about that.
I think it's important that the bitterness of years past, not just on our side of politics but on the other side of politics as well.
I mean, I've been in this Parliament about the same time as Michael, just a little bit longer, I think, and it's been a pretty tumultuous time.
I think Australians would welcome the fact that that period of time is over.
And it should be over.
Australians expect that of their Parliament and I'm pleased that that's the case.
The age of bitterness has come to a close and the age of working together and focusing on the future has come.
Tony and I are continuing to talk about the role he can play and, as a former Prime Minister, I want to use his experience, I want to use his insights in an area I know he is deeply passionate about.
Just like Michael and I want to ensure that, as former leader of the National Party, we're using Barnaby's skills and experience as part of our Government.
He deserves the respect of a full proposal as to what I see his role as and I'll give him the respect of that and we will keep working that through.
Well, I can remember as Treasurer earlier this year, and I remember Michael saying in Cabinet - sorry to breach Cabinet confidence..
Michael was pushing this had to be put on our agenda and what our response was.
That had a big impact on me, Michael, and, as you know, we went through a range of packages that went through the budget.
Since then, we've been doing the same thing.
I was very involved in that as Treasurer, as Michael knows, and had some pretty strong views about particularly keeping the regional towns and communities going.
They're all little economies.
No different to the economy of the Cronulla Mall or out here in Quilpie, they’re little economies that support a lot of people.
Now the Cronulla Mall gets support from a much bigger customer base than they do in Quilpie.
You have got to keep the towns going.
The broader farming community around these towns are a huge part.
A lot of other things are part of those towns.
You have people working at the council everywhere from answering phones to doing accounts to managing programs.
You've got people running small businesses.
A lot of people and a lot of different jobs depend on money continuing to come through these towns.
I have spoken to the Home Affairs Minister, Peter Dutton, and he was a designate at that point when I spoke to him - he has been sworn in now, he is in Brisbane - I should say the Gold Coast - attending the Five Eyes meetings with others there.
The vessel, as I understand the briefing that has been provided to me, relates to a fishing vessel and, as a result, that doesn't fall into the category of what I often used to refer to as these illegal vessel arrivals so what we're seeing with that is the usual process kicks in and we'll manage that as we've managed the others but it's a reminder to all Australians, we did stop the boats.
I had a significant role to play as part of that under the Abbott Government.
I have had a significant role to play under the Turnbull Government as the Treasurer.
But under my Government, I'll be focusing on all of these things and we can't take the success of our country and the achievements we've had under the Abbott Government and under the Turnbull Government for granted.
I mean, these things don't stay fixed.
You've got to keep them fixed.
You need to continue to apply the same application, the same strength, the
I've been on a plane for a fair bit of time and I haven't been able to speak to Peter since earlier today.
I will be seeking an update later today.
I have no doubt about the ability of Peter Dutton to carry on the work which I started many, many years ago and keep the issue right under control.