It’s nice to see you down here. Let me ask you off the top, hey, you’ve really got in and met some of the locals, including I believe one of my favourite places, Sporties last night? Is that true?
Just to put to you to get a response from you and I know that time is flying, so I’ll keep it as short as possible. One of them is talking about the NDIS.
These funds will only be available for people wanting to go into specific skills, it won’t be for all trades?
What skills specifically are they for Tasmania, that are lacking here?
Mr Morrison I understand that [inaudible] the same [inaudible] so are you going to be funding that?
Today’s announcement, you said you’d be having a discussion with the Tasmanian Government, so has Tas TAFE been involved in that?
Can I just get a general comment, yeah, what do you think of today’s announcement, how will that help you in the skills shortage you face?
Malcom Turnbull said you can’t wave off the revelations about Peter Dutton’s private [inaudible] as the bubble and the buck stops with you. What are you going to do?
About how he came to be in a lunchtime meeting with [inaudible]?
Was the Environment Minister ever pressured to get those Adani agreements done, will this free you up in your decision to call the election? And you’re a religious man, does Easter factor into any plans for an election date?
But it's something that just as a bloke, it’s got to feel good. You look at your time in office, reaching the highest office in the land and you've been able to help those people?
That’s it, clusters of as you say, clusters of teenagers, kids as young as 12 and even younger. The fact that you are so hopeless.
One of the knocks that seems to be coming from the obvious sections of the media, most likely informed by your political opponents, is the only way you get to surplus is because somehow you're skimping on the NDIS. I'm assuming this is something you believe not to be true.
But do you care that something as clearly inaccurate as that, takes hold in the media as quickly as it does? It frankly flushes out the people that, it wouldn’t matter if you gave people $100,000, they still would have found a way to say; “Terrible Budget, they're on their way out”
A lot of people watching us are involved in small business. This is going to be one of the big fights of the election, not just about the impact of minimum wage changes, but most importantly for one of the big boosts - and you could feel it a few years ago when the Government did it - which was the asset write off.
The fact that even more companies will now be able to claim up to $30,000, This means you get to, people reinvest in their business and now they get to keep even more of their own money.
So this is the thing; the commentariat, the polls whatever, we all know the game that exists now. But isn't it interesting that when the NSW election was 50/50 in the polls, the media covered it in a completely different fashion that meant Michael Daly blew himself up in the last week, it mattered.
To those people that, either in the past have strayed, or find it hard to go as hard as they may have in previous years, what do you say not to the paid-up and proud members of the Liberal Party, but the person who has voted more than not for the Liberal Party, about why they should fight just as hard in the next couple of months, as they did six years ago?
Just finally, Married At First Sight sadly beat the Budget in ratings last night. Any plans on putting those couples into the Senate just at the last minute?
And one as we mentioned before about the PBS, that was actually able to help people last night.
You’re kidding, hang on a moment, you're letting me down here. I was convinced, hang on a moment, he’s going to buck all tradition here, he’s going ignore tradition and he's going to call the election live on my show.
Then you’ll go and see the Governor-General on Saturday or Sunday.
Alright, well look we do have a few minutes to talk to you, so if you change your mind, I’m here. First things first, reaction to the Federal Budget, let's get to that.
How do you reckon the Budget has been received by Australians? You’ve already had a chance to get a bit of a sense of that?
I had a problem with the remote control, I got stuck. Anyway, I tuned in on Monday night and there was someone asked a question  - this this whole thing about power bill relief – “Why don't people on Newstart get it?” I mentioned the next day I really quite liked how Arthur Sinodinos said; “Look, I don't know.
And when you consider what Newstart is, it's not a lot of money so I don't –
In the interest of flexibility, like on the Newstart thing, if you do look at it, if you look at it and go; “Alright we're in a pretty strong position as far as finances are concerned, we might be able to do a few more things for people with cancer considering the number of people impacted by it,” you're willing to take a look at that?
Not all of them, but most of them today have saying; “Well you know, when I went through my own cancer battle, I didn't pay for any of this stuff”.
And you’ll go above politics on cancer if you feel you can do more, you will?
Oh, a Scalextric electric car set? He might have been talking about them.
Oh, it can take, it depends what the original charge is. But it can take eight to ten minutes, depending on your charging.
Now, what he’s saying is right … because if you charge an electric car for eight minutes, it will get you from Cronulla to Caringbah.
There’s a mob called ‘Aussie Farms’ you may have seen these guys. They’re the people who put that map up of farm locations and they've been invading farm land, even though they've been told not to come on them.
Speaking of people going to war with Australians, you had said earlier in the week that you're not going to put any Australian life at risk to extract people from conflict zones?
Talking about people who go and sign up with Islamic State, you've also made some comments in relation to the children of Khaled Sharrouf, one of our most infamous terrorists. You’ve spoken about these children, you’re saying in the case of the children who were the innocent victims of those who took them into this atrocious place, they have a responsibility here.
I'm really torn on this and I feel so sorry for these children. There are so many children out there PM, who find themselves in circumstances based on the decisions made by their mum or dad, rightly or wrongly.
But I really worry too when you got 16 and 17 year olds, I worry whether you’re importing a problem here. If they grow up feeling like their father's life was taken by, you know, Australian-backed forces, are they going to seek revenge or retribution? I mean someone said earlier on the open line, just lastly; “Look, you know, it’s terrible for these kids, but let's face it, is anyone going to want them sitting next to their kid in the classroom here in Australia?”
You think we need to show a bit of love. We need to show we’re humane?
Really appreciate you sparing some time to call in this afternoon, I know I've probably gone over the allotted time. What have you got on tomorrow?
Alright, so we’ll be at the polls really soon, but you’re not saying when?
Well I was hoping for the scoop, you haven’t given me one but it's always nice to chat, thank you so much for coming on.
Plenty of sweeteners in the Budget for working Australians. Is it a bit too soon though? We’re still in budget deficit, $4 billion this year, $7 billion next year.
Okay tax is one side of it, but the other side is wage increases. Look, you’ve have had record jobs growth, no denying that.
See, these budget surpluses, which look impressive in the years going forward, just terrific, they’re all dependant on maintaining a strong economy. But the Treasurer even in his speech said we're facing really difficult economic conditions in the next few years, particularly from overseas.
Big infrastructure spending. What, $100 billion over the next few years? I’ve got to say, you must be a fan of Utopia, the TV series because you’re creating a National Fast Train Authority.
So this is obviously a marketing document for the upcoming federal election, it’s dependent on you getting re-elected. You can almost say anything at the moment and then backtrack later if you are re- elected.
Are you going to guarantee all these measures? We have heard fast train plans for the last 20 years and none of them have ever got up. Are you guaranteeing everything in this Budget if you get re-elected?
When the Coalition was elected in 2013 it was on the back of promises to end Labor's debt and deficit nightmare and to rein in what you said was Labor's out of control spending. When we look at your record of six years in office, you've had deficits every year you've been in power, net debt when you were elected was 13.
Has the Coalition given up on cutting the company tax rate for large business? You were telling us a couple of years ago that our international competitiveness was being destroyed by the comparatively high company tax rate.
Why have you given up on that, given as I say, that you were making the point a couple of years ago that it desperately needed to be cut for all businesses?
Let me ask you a question that I also asked Treasurer Frydenberg last night; isn't it a sign of policy failure of this government, that you're giving people a one-off payment to help with expenses, rather than at this point in the life of your government being able to say; "Look, we've put in place policies during the past six years that have consistently driven down your medical bills, consistently driven down your insurance premiums and consistently driven down your power bills?
Last night when those payments were announced, or it was actually on the weekend, they weren't going to apply to people on Newstart. At the National Press Club today the Treasurer said that last night you, he and Mathias Cormann had a discussion and decided it would be appropriate to extend it.
As a guest or subject of commentary on Mr Hadley's program, did you yourself ever feel bullied by him?
What do you say to the comments from Imre Salusinszky who is the former advisor to the New South Wales Premier Mike Baird, that conservative politicians have a tendency to cave on policy decisions due pressure of broadcasters like Ray Hadley?
You've never caved or changed your mind on anything due to pressure from commercial radio broadcasters, commercial television presenters?
PM, thank you very much for joining us. I look forward to talking to you on the election campaign.
I thought Tina Arena was your singer of choice and yet we’ve got ACDC Back in Black - not quite back in the black though, we're still back the red at the moment this year, aren’t we? 
Surpluses have been promised though and not delivered in the past. Labor's Wayne Swan failed to deliver four of them, very famously.
In the Budget though, last night the Treasurer did point out that there were headwinds the economy is facing - the slowdown in the global economy, the housing market is in a slump and forecasts of further house price falls to come?
Those are beyond your control, a lot of those factors, commodity prices too. So how can you guarantee a surplus when you can't control those factors?
Budgets are always political documents but this is especially so with the election looming, do you think that this will be enough to win votes?
Is it wise though to be spending the extra money that we do have when there are those headwinds that are facing our economy? Should we be putting this surplus in the bank?
The tax cuts you’ve announced equate to about $19 a week extra for the average Australian income. Do you think that will be enough to sway voters, do you think that amount of money in the pocket will be enough to make people think that’s a good policy?
To get that tax cut though, they will have to vote for you in the election because it won’t be introduced into Parliament this week, will it?
Will you be visiting the Governor-General this weekend to call the election?
So will you and the girls be delivering Jenny breakfast in bed, or will you perhaps be too busy on the campaign trial?
Alright, and Sunday? Should I put a mark around Sunday and expect to be on air announcing an election?
It's taken twelve long years to get the Budget back into surplus. That's due next year.
But is $158 billion of promised tax cuts on top of $144 billion already legislated, this Budget tells us there are danger signs ahead for the economy. The global outlook is slow, the growth forecasts have been cut, employment growth has been downgraded, consumption growth is slowing too.
No, but you don't get to surpluses and maintain them with slowing growth and slowing global outlook and tax handouts, do you?
Well, they’re not always conservative, we haven't hit the wages forecasts for the last five budgets.
Let's come back to your Budget, let's come back to your tax package. The most immediate measure - a lot of moving parts in this tax package - the most immediate measure is the proposed doubling of the low and middle income tax offset, which is worth up $1,080 for every single Australian and double that for dual income families.
Four and a half million taxpayers would receive that tax cut from the 1st of July. But you're essentially matching, a little bit more, the promise Labor has have on the table for a year.
In the short term, in the first four years, you’re providing tax relief for the same group Labor is.
Yeah and in a real comparison over the forward estimates, over the next three to four years, middle income and low income Australians would get the same immediate tax hit from you as they would from Labor.
Yeah, but most of the money in your Budget is going on this tax plan. You'd be happy to hear last night, I think, that Labor would support this initial part of your tax plan, the $1080 for individuals.
Well, that's what they thought last time and then didn't turn out that way at the end of the term.
Well coming back to the energy - because as I’ve said I actually sent a message to Josh Frydenberg, I said look, congratulations and so on, but I'm sorry, you haven't released the most important economic document this week. This was Labor's energy policy.
I’m sorry to turn you around here, thank you for that point. The businesses, okay.
Now, how the hell does he manage? There’s no electric ute on the market.
So what does this poor coot do when he uses a utility? Either he reduces his earnings and cops it, or alternately he puts someone off, or he jacks up the price of his product. I mean, this is a nightmare for these people.
I just want to come back to this point, because I know you live in the undiluted luxury of Cronulla, or else Kirribilli. But there are people who actually live in areas of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and whatever, where they have no off-street parking facilities, they park on the street.
That’s right! The cost of your car goes up, your house goes up, your office goes up and the cost of the road goes up. Where is this being costed? I mean, are you going to prosecute this?
Right, just a couple of things here because there is thousands of pages this stuff. Just amplify for our listeners, 94 - of course you've got to get through an election to enable any of this to happen - but 94 per cent of Australians - you’ve got to say this slowly - will pay no more than 30 cents in the dollar of course, if they re-elect you people.
Don’t forget death duties, don’t forget death duties. Does anyone sort of save and invest in whatever, to have the government take it? Julian Burnside, the glamour candidate down there in Kooyong, says death duties, the CFMEU say death duties, the Labor unions say death duties.
Now look, just a couple of things. I trust you're on top of all of this, I'm not suggesting you're not, but a couple of things that were important to our listeners here last night which won't be talked about today.
On breast cancer I just want to raise for our listeners. That’s Ibrance which they've been writing to me about, it’s used to treat inoperable breast cancer.
I watched Josh Frydenberg’s first Budget last night, is it going to win you the next election?
But do you think the surplus matters in itself to everyday Australians? Because that was the most conspicuous thing in Josh Frydenberg speech last night, the surplus, the surplus, we’re back in black, we've got a surplus. Do you think your average person really cares?
Okay so will the ends, you know, the various spending programmes you outlined or Josh Frydenberg outlined, will they win you the election?
I was recently wandering around the seat of Kooyong. I don't live there but my daughter goes to school there and I noticed most of the candidates who are running against Josh Frydenberg seemed to be running on environmental platforms, Julian Burnside, Oliver Yates.
Is it true that you will go to the Governor-General tomorrow and ask that Parliament be dissolved and an election be called?
All right, we'll look forward to that. Now, the energy Newstart policy, I happened to watch Q&A accidentally on Monday night and I saw that Arthur Sinodinos was tackled on why the $75 to $125 energy subsidy wasn't going to people in receipt of Newstart.
No, no, but it was only a week ago that the energy subsidy was announced and it looks like…
Well exactly, so it was a mistake that Newstart recipients missed out?
I see, so you made the change so it would be passed through Parliament?
So, I mean, I spoke at a Budget breakfast this morning and I mentioned I'd seen a picture of Malcolm and Tammy Fraser in 1978 getting on board a Japanese bullet train and saying, “This is what we need for Australia.” That was over 40 years ago now.
Sorry which one is that? The one to the airport or the one to Geelong?
OK so the very fast train to Geelong and back, that's a reality? Or will soon be a reality?
Because we've talked so much over the years about fast trains, they've never, I don’t think we’ve ever had a train go faster than 100 kms an hour.
Now today in Parliament you said something I found a little bit odd. We'll just have a listen to it.
Very quickly you popped up on Snapchat in the past couple of days and we in fact played one of your videos yesterday. You got a lot of likes a lot of new friends on this social media platform.
Okay, speaking of footy, last time you and I spoke in person I gave you a Carlton football jumper and made you a member of the club. How do you think the Blues will go against the Swans at Marvel Stadium this Saturday?
Well it was a great crowd, a record crowd for a women's AFL match. I know you’ve got to go, a busy day.
Isn't this the most nakedly political budget in Australian history?
It's a promise of a surplus of $7 billion next financial year, but how robust is that promise given as we saw in the Budget documents last night, very considerable risks from overseas and risks here care of those falling house prices. How confident are you that you'll actually hit that Budget surplus next year and for that matter the years afterwards?
How much of this Budget, though, is aimed at neutralising Labor politically? I ask that question because the Labor Party has already vowed to match the first round of tax cuts announced last night?
It is a measly figure, $277 a week. Even Arthur Sinodinos, your colleague on Q&A on Monday was saying it needs to go up.
You don't think voters will look back and discount you for all the… for the muppet show, your words, we saw last year?
Is it a moral fail to build an election surplus off starving the National Disability Insurance Scheme of money, leaving disabled people without the services they need?
Mr Morrison, we’ve spoken to the providers, they do not have the cash flow allocated in order to meet the demand.
They’re not clients of hospitals at all. They’re paid through community organisations and charities and they need more money.
It’s not the Labor Party, it’s the people who work their fingers to the bone for the disabled.
Well we can have both actually, I'm trying to explore one of the major issues in the Budget.
All right well let's move on to other things but I'm basing my beliefs not on what the Labor Party have briefed us on.
But the disability sector, it’s what the disability sector have put in their own press releases. Let's move on.
Desperately needed. Just a few things, we’ll come to infrastructure in a moment which is a very welcome commitment from your Government.
Every now and again there's one that goes past and you go; “Ooh, that would be interesting”. So having got that sorted, Geelong in particular.
The commitments to try and save Sarah Henderson in the very marginal Victorian seat of Corangamite. When does the money for Geelong Fast Rail start to flow?
But you’re press conference the other day with lots of people in fluoro vests and hard hats - and we're going to see more of that - you said it can start in 18 months, but in fact, the cash flow doesn't kick in until 2021?
So how can it start in 18 months when cash flow starts in three years?
And the duplication to Waurn Ponds, allocating $50 million over four years, but it's a $750 million project.
So the actual expenditure is not just beyond the forward estimates of this Budget, but within them.
So do you borrow the credibility that was built by the Andrews government and their model that led to them being re-elected? Do you say, well, we haven't really done that much for infrastructure in Victoria for the last few years, but forgive us, we've realised that the error of our ways and we're going to do it now?
Sorry, your main commitment was for a tunnel the people of Victoria people voted against twice in elections.
But do you have a credibility problem, not just on infrastructure where Victorians for years have been calling for more investment from the Commonwealth, but for instance your apprenticeships announcement. Billions cut from TAFE over years and years and suddenly now you say you'll put some of that back?
But where's your credibility on apprenticeships, if you've in fact, as you have, been cutting TAFE? You may have been putting money into private training up providers.
I don't want to make you late for your next commitment but just finally, extending the energy supplement to Newstart seems like an afterthought that was announced by the Treasurer on radio this morning, not in the Budget.
Will you advise the LNP in Queensland to put One Nation below Labor and the Greens?
On energy in north and central Queensland, is that limited to underwriting or could subsidies be a part of that program?
On social media, you mentioned the campaigns to blacklist companies. Is that a suggestion that you would ask social media or require social media to try to crack down on those kinds of ‘boycott movements,’ like Sleeping Giants?
Have you got little lights you can put on your car so you can come roaring down the middle of the road?
We're into an election campaign, can you give me four or five words, what is your pitch, what your slogan? Why should we vote for you?
Four or five words then, it’s; “stronger economy, safer Australia, come together”? 
The polls aren't good, you didn't get any real bounce from that offshore processing issue and that was pushed pretty hard. Do you still recon you can win?
Still, a lot of people say it's going to happen, all the polls say it's going to happen.
Speaking of that, is Malcolm Turnbull going to campaign for the Government?
Have you asked him to keep his head down a bit, not cause trouble?
Well, he’s campaigning against one of your ministers in Flinders.
Ohh, what about his statement? Yes, alright. One Nation, I saw ad nauseam on The Project last night, you're not going to commit to putting them below Labor in the preferences, at this stage anyway.
Well, look at that One Nation beast. Pauline Hanson, is she a racist? 
Well, let's look at One Nation the Party then. Do One Nation policies represent Australian values or are they at odds with Australian values? 
Well I mean I’m interested, you’re tiptoeing around One Nation. Why are you being so careful?
Well, do you think Pauline Hanson supports you on that philosophy?
True, true, but you will to an extent be judged on your reaction to parties like this. I mean you were quite happy to take Fraser Anning’s head off for what he did.
Which was obscene and which was wrong, but sometimes Pauline Hanson … she won’t even condemn Fraser Anning. 
The reason I did raise it by the way, is Kevin Rudd has tweeted; “It's appalling that Morrison,” you, “can't simply state Liberals and Nationals, put One Nation last. Hanson’s racism and religious bigotry is as clear as day.
Well, for the same reasons you won’t bag One Nation, it's political.
A fast trail to Geelong. You've talked about $2 billion dollars towards it.
But you’d agree it’s going to have to be one of those three? It can't just arrive at the edge of the city and go from 160 to 20.
So you like the idea of Geelong being like a suburb of Melbourne?
And Albury Wodonga, you want to have a look at a business case?
Matthew Guy did float this himself during the election campaign, didn't do him much good.
So would you look at this? If you’re on the minimum wage, you’re paying $70 a week in tax. What about a ‘shandy deal’, employers pay them a bit and you increase the tax-free threshold, give them some back in tax?
I loved the fact that the child who served you at McDonalds didn't know who you were.
And a pot and a parma at the pub in Malvern? How often, the health police will be onto you.
Because you’re not allowed to eat Maccas, you’re not allowed to eat parmas, you’re not allowed to drink beer.
Particularly in an interview with a politician. I'm going to let you set the agenda to begin with.
It's an attack that has kind of, I was going to say ‘reset’ but it's least caused pause. Because if I can put it in such crude terms, the community that for 15 years or 18 years has been framed in the public imagination as a perpetrator, suddenly became the victim.
I understand your point but when I ask about Islamophobia, I don’t mean just that people don’t understand and they are a bit apprehensive. I mean effectively, an ‘ideologized’ form, an approach - 
Okay. Well let me be perhaps, more focused in the way I want to ask this.
No, no, I get that you want to speak for yourself, but it is important to focus on the Coalition generally.
Sure, okay. So let me just run through some things and perhaps you can help me understand better or explain motives or whatever it might be.
But is that happening? Especially when, with that track record … I'm trying to draw you on whether or not that track record is a problem and I haven’t -
Okay sure, but is that track record a problem in the first place?
No, I'll just re-ask it. Does your Party and your Coalition have a problem of Islamophobia? 
What about though, if they are speaking at a Reclaim Australia rally?
I appreciate that sentiment, I think talking about the past is important because the only way that you can move forward, reset at a moment like this, is if you acknowledge things that have happened in the past that are a problem and that need fixing.
Would I equate it with what Fraser Anning had to say? Would you?
The clear implication, okay, we’re going to get into implication –
Oh, it was the heat of the moment thing? Is that what you’re saying?
Well, there were some members who went on the record, some of whom weren't at the meeting. There are other members who –
With respect, Phillip Ruddock did not say it didn’t happen, he said that he could not recall. I have looked high and low -
You talk about people who have been on the record. Well, there is at least one of those people on the record saying that it did happen, that being Andrew Robb.
You can get to that point in a second. You have multiple journalists -
You have multiple reporters, reporting from multiple sources that it happened and you have one on the record saying the same.
So when you raised those issues in that meeting, what did you say to them?
So the reports then of other people in the shadow cabinet concluding that discussion by saying; “We have a non-discriminatory immigration policy and that's the way that it should stay”?
Why would that need to be said though, if the discussion in the meeting was about; “How can we dampen down community concerns about Muslims”?
This was a meeting about campaign strategy and you were saying –
“We're drawing a line under this because we have a non-discriminatory immigration system.”
But I still don’t understand why she would need to say that, if that wasn't a matter of controversy within the meeting? 
I'm not accusing you of not having ever worked with the Muslim community in Sydney, or even not having done it for a long time.
You’ve provided your explanation, fine, people will just draw their own conclusions on that. I have no problem with that.
You wanted to look forward and you wanted to talk about the tone.
Does acting in accordance with those beliefs mean that you will be henceforth – this is about the future and about the tone you want to set as a leader - that you will be preferencing One Nation last?
Not a deal, will you on your how-to-vote cards, be putting One Nation last?
I'm not talking about deal with One Nation. I'm talking about a decision from your Party to preference One Nation - who by the way said that Islam was a disease that needed to be vaccinated - will you be putting them last on your how-to-vote card?
Right. So if Fraser Anning is, you will put One Nation ahead of Fraser Anning?
No, no, no, let me rephrase because I know what you’re going to –
I need to get through this question. Will you at the very least committed in every seat, to putting them below the Labor Party and the Greens?
But you’re talking about a preference deal, which is not what I’m talking about.
Do you think, particularly in the circumstances that we face right now, that the Liberal Party and the National Party where relevant, should be preferencing One Nation below Labor and the Greens?
But there is also the question of leadership, which you have raised.
Would it not be a strong act of leadership to say right now that you shouldn't be preferencing in One Nation ahead of Labor and the Greens? It would be an uncontroversial thing.
So does that mean it is possible that you will be preferencing One Nation ahead of Labor and the Greens?
No, it wasn't clear to me on that point, sorry. Does that mean -
Okay on the question of immigration - and here I’m not talking about the policy of immigration so much as the rhetoric of immigration, the discourse around immigration - do you think it's a problem when we talk about asylum seekers in particular through the prism of the possibility of them being rapists, of being murderers, of being paedophiles? This kind of ‘quasi Trumpian’ language? In his case applied to Mexicans.
No, no there are multiple points to this, one of which is that it was warning that these people would be in Australia, as though they would be in the community. The bill in question never did that.
The bill made clear that they could be denied on those grounds and so they wouldn't get they into the country in the first place.
We spoke to numerous people who were involved in drafting the bill, there seems to have been no advice that those people, with those track records, would be able to –
Do you understand though that when you frame the issue in that way, that creates an environment of prejudice? Or do you think that's not what happens?
I feel like it’s very difficult to get through a sentence at the moment. The question really is about whether or not front-footing that description of these people, when there are so few of them in that category - and the categories that we were being warned about ended up being so vanishingly small once further questioning was applied to them – that that creates -
No, no how many, how many murderers, rapists and paedophiles are we talking about?
No, no that’s not what I asked. How many murders, rapists and paedophiles? It’s an important question because that's –
I would say none, which is what the authors of the bill contend.
Okay can you give me that number, I am actually interested to know it.
And I’m not sugar-coating anything with that. Let me ask you about one final area here.
So I fully expect that when someone, one of your political opponents behaves in a way that is contrary to the spirit of that, that you will censure them. I fully expect that.
I’m not prejudging, I’m asking the question. Will you henceforth -
We’ll certainly be watching and supporting, absolutely where that does happen.
Now, you have said it’s your job to have a plan for managing our population, we agree with you. So will you be successful in directing migrants to regional areas? And what support in these regional areas once migrants get out there?
Now the Opposition has questioned the timing of this immigration announcement, given what we’ve seen in Christchurch. Does that wash with you?
OK, now sweeping changes to the welfare system are also going to be announced today. Job hunters are going to be allowed to search for work on their home computer or smartphone, there is a new app coming.
You have appealed to world leaders to crack down on social media platforms following the Christchurch Mosque attack. What you want them to do?
Are you concerned that these comments by the President expose or open Australia to terror attacks?
What do you mean by ‘common sense’? Are you suggesting that Australians put their travel plans on hold?
Could you expand, please, on your comment that all options are open?
What was the ambassador's explanation for the President's comment?
The Federal Government is unveiling a population policy today. It will cap the nation's permanent migration intake at 160,000 people for the next four years.
How would you quantify the threat of right wing extremists in Australia?
The New Zealand minister over there Andrew Little says that authorities there were only really alert to this midway through last year. What assurances can you give Australians here that their investigations are on point?
Where would you suggest voters in the upcoming federal election put One Nation and the Shooters Party?
Is a censure strong enough for Fraser ending in Parliament? Some want him suspended for the rest of the term.
Onto your announcement today, this intention has been flagged for a long time. The rate that you want is one that Australia is currently close to.
The Chamber of Commerce and Industry's James Pearson has described this shift as an economic own goal. He says it's very disappointing that you're imposing a lower cap.
This announcement comes three days out from a crucial state election where population growth and congestion are very big issues there and where the incumbent Liberal Party is in trouble. What's the public to make of this timing?
What is the economic… where is the economic modelling and what are the economic benefits of your announcement, given that migration is a very strong economic stimulus?
23,000 migrants will be required to live in regional areas under this plan. How will you force them to do that and will there be jobs for them?
Sure but how you can you can't compel them to live in those places.
The current intake is not much above 160,000, that’s the new cap you're announcing. So what difference will this make?
The economic benefits of migration are unquestioned as you know.
We do know, as you also know, that the economy is slowing, so won't this hurt the economy down the track?
“Your grandparents came, some of them returned in coffins. Have no doubt we will send you back like your grandparents.
Have you ever in any shadow cabinet or Cabinet meeting raised that thought.
Your office has threatened to sue the Ten Network which raised this allegation on Thursday, for defamation. Will you proceed with that?
Firstly PM, Erdogan, the Turkish President. Do you have a comment on that?
Okay. Just to use language that people can understand, the number of permanent residents is what you're talking about here.
Yeah but I mean, you've got 500,000 international students, 500,000 international students. My God.
But supposing they get the permanent residency, supposing they get..
OK good. I won't talk to you today about the infrastructure because that's part of where they will go to settle.
Quite. But could I just say on that, the notion that we want to get people out of the capital cities, a most laudable notion.
You could feed Asia, you could feed Asia, people would willingly live west of the Great Dividing Range and the quality of life if they knew they weren't going to be immersed and surrounded and enveloped by drought. And we have to guarantee water.
OK, one other thing because we're both running out of time here. I'm just wondering whether you would, because governments interfere and intervene notions they interfere.
That’s Coles and Woolworths, that’s not farm gate prices. These people are on contracts.
Do we need to be concerned about any similar attacks here? Any extra protection for mosques in particular?
It’s good advice of yours, to give everyone a hug on this subject, but what do we say to New Zealand, our closest friends, this will never be forgotten?
Thank you for joining us. You went to Christmas Island yesterday.
What kind of condition is it in, if it hasn't been used for a year? Is it full of cobwebs and mothballs?
The Medivac thing is now reality, right? So are you thinking that there are going to be boats coming and is there any suggestion that we've seen any leave?
So Christmas Island yesterday, in WA today what do what are you up to? Are you on the election campaign trail already?
We had a hint of those headwinds yesterday. Were you worried about those economic figures out yesterday? They were indicating if it wasn't for population growth we'd be in recession.
When I mentioned that about, you know, if it wasn't for population growth we'd be in recession. I spoke to Terry McCrann yesterday, the business writer from NewsCorp.
Let me ask you about the reports out today about this Chinese company that is backed by the Chinese government wanting to build a massive new coal fired power plant in the Hunter Valley. One of your MPs Craig Kelly says it's fantastic.
OK quick one, as a rugby league fan, what do you make of the NRL players involved in leaked videos in these sex tapes? I know that Phil Gould from the Penrith Panthers says this goes beyond sport, it’s a massive issue for Australians mums and dads. What’s your message to younger people who are facing these issues, that… well, they can basically ruin lives in an instant and we’re seeing that at the moment.
We appreciate you calling in, when are you heading back our way?
No doubt about it. On a lighter note before I let you go, Ray Williams who is a Minister here in NSW, we have named and shamed him today for using photos on his election posters from about 30 years ago when he had jet black hair.
Appreciate your time. You’re here in Perth, we will come to that.
OK. What's on the agenda here in Perth? You’ve been in Henderson this morning what else we up to?
You can't afford to lose any seats in WA, can you? But the Labor Party is coming for them.
We’ll come back on Christmas Island, but I just I just want to focus on Perth for the moment. I mean it's.
You’re not going to have Malcolm Turnbull's $1.5 billion to fall back on, are you?
The warning was that when the Medivac Bill passed there'd be hundreds of applications immediately. How many applications have there been?
But the suggestion was our ready to go. So how many applications have been made?
I can understand that there's probably some pretty significant deterrent effect there by saying you're not coming to the mainland, you’re going to Christmas Island but I'm just wondering, because the advice was that saying that the applications were ready to go. I'm just wondering have there been any yet? It sounds like they haven't.
Does it help you beat him for her to say that only she could beaten him?
You interested in helping the WACA fund their redevelopment ambitions?
OK. Christian Porter just told us earlier that he's been lobbying hard on this one.
This is about rebuilding and reconstruction. Despite all this help though, do you think the North Queensland cattle industry will ever be the same?
You’re doing it through something you’re establishing called the North Queensland Livestock Industry Recovery Agency. Its job is to help rebuild farm infrastructure, restock the herds as you’ve just been saying.
Ok, according to your announcement there’s $2 billion there for loans by the government being offered through the banks - that’s how I understand it - at a lower interest rate. How cheap will these loans be? Are you fixing an interest rate and how can you be sure the lower rates will be passed onto the farmers.
This is different though, through the banks isn’t it? Isn’t it banks are being..
Yeah, but over the year to September 2018, emissions were up 0.9%.
Ok, but the government keeps telling us emissions are falling. Your own data shows that over the past year, up to September 2018, they didn’t fall, they went up.
Well, your figures show the emissions are going up but let’s put that aside because what has happened this week is you’ve really emerged I think as almost an evangelical supporter of pumped hydro. There’s really been no mention of coal this week.
But what I’m asking you… what I’m asking you is in the government underwriting process that’s underway. You’ve already named one program today.
Well no this is a government decision I’m talking about, underwriting the government, taxpayer’s money.
Well just on that… just on that and you know there’s hundreds doctors who argue with you on that but your Minister Peter Dutton this week has warned that Australians will be kicked off waiting lists for hospitals and public housing by an influx of transferees under that legislation. There’s so far only about 70 refugees and asylum seekers requiring medical evacuation.
And 900 have come to Australia and that hasn’t seemed to undermine the border protection policy.
Isn’t it scaremongering to say this will keep people off the public waiting list?
So you’ve gone from coal-aphobia to recognising a climate emergency. What’s your credibility on climate policy?
Five years after this virtually the same proposal was abandoned, so we’ve lost five years.
And now suddenly you’re saying, ‘We’ve got an election coming we’ve got to crank it up.’
Isn’t the reality, in fact though, that you’re on a tightrope, on the one hand you’ve got the coal lobby and the resources sector, some of whom are changing their mind, mind you, on one side, what works with the coal industry is disastrous for people who want action and more action on climate change, and you’re on that tightrope trying to juggle the two.
Well, those targets keep shifting around, apart from [inaudible].
Some of that shouting and hot air has come from your side of the ledger.
Well, to those on your side, who have been holding up or even saying there is no need for further action on climate change, what do you say to them today?
You know, the Labor Party love it every time you talk about them?
But every time you reference them, every time you make them more relevant. They go, ‘Cha-ching, cha-ching, hooray, thank you.
Well, they’re announcing today a $640 million fund over four years for what they call ‘bank fairness’.
He’s proposing tax relief for most Australians whilst at the same time going to get rid of what he says is a rort…
That some people have exploited through access to franking credits.
Well, they, I, I’m referring to what their policy claims are, which is only reasonable.
Overnight, its been announced by the Department of Veterans’ Affairs that the Dawn Service in France at the Villers-Bretonneux Memorial Centre, the Monash Centre, which has just been completed at a cost of, I think, $100 million, they don’t want to run a Dawn Service anymore, they want to move it to a 10 o’clock ANZAC Day service, what’s your view, is it good or bad?
That will be very welcome news in many quarters, Dawn Services are Dawn Services, they’re not 10 o’clock in the morning/morning tea services.
They’re incredibly moving, it’s astonishing that so many people now turn up all over Australia and all around the world.
And you were hoping that that would result in an improvement for your side in the polls.
So Newspoll’s result on this issue specifically, in the last little while, would suggest that the parties are level-pegging on that topic…
… we also have a view of assessing politicians and what they offer and we always see it through the prism of what’s going to get them re-elected.
If those policies were unpopular, would you have still pursued them?
So you will do anything you can to get the best laws in place to advance those policies but you rejected the advice of the security agencies on the medevac laws last week …
…a provision that would allow for people to be medevaced to Australia but then returned.
What half of it was not true? That was the advice from the security agency.
The security agencies had to say “Hang on, that’s not what we said”..
That bill can be improved. That bill can be improved with a simple addition
But if it was going to go through because you no longer control the numbers…
No it wasn’t the Labor Party actually, I’m not even aware of what the Labor Party…
The Minister in charge of finances who doesn’t look after his own credit card transactions.
Ita Buttrose, not on the list, of possible chairs, of the board of this organisation the ABC but certainly well-placed sources in today’s newspapers say even though there were no men on the list that was put to Cabinet, Ita Buttrose may leapfrog the field?
We are going to see a bit more of you in Victoria in the next few months…
And we’ve got seats now, Liberal seats which the Labor Party, with what are projected to be swings, seats that they now have within their their gaze, which otherwise they thought were well beyond their reach so we will see more of you.
I’ve made you late for your next appointment.  I’ve got your staff glaring at me through the glass, I’ll have to let you go.
Well this climate solutions fund as you are calling it this morning, will it be used to underwrite new coal projects of which the government, your Government with Angus Taylor has identified ten?
So there won’t be any funding from this to go to underwriting of new coal, that money will be found elsewhere and I imagine you will require legislation?
Well that is the debate you will obviously continue over coming months but did you concede this morning that $2 billion it’s a big figure this is a carbon price isn’t it of some sort on the economy and on tax payers.
Can I ask you about the latest Newspoll 47 out of 53 you are still six points behind after the last fortnight in Parliament are you disappointed that there hasn’t been some kind of improvement there?
Do you feel that you have misread the mood though somewhat on asylum seekers, in terms of medical evacuations as you say in terms of the polling you are up on national security you are up on border protection that’s fine but in terms of the primary vote it hasn’t budged. Are people more sympathetic than you might have expected?
All right and so hopefully some change or potential change on that front and finally onto China and the coal issues do you think it is believable what they have said in relation to environmental checks for our coal given the standard of our exported coal is better than most of the rest of the world and yet exports from Indonesia, Russia are still going in to that port of Dalian in China is their reason believable?
What is the difference between your Climate Solutions Fund and the Emissions Reduction Fund created by Tony Abbott?
When you are quoted as saying you will meet your targets in a canter, you were including this money? You had this in mind?
How will people in remote communities be able to hold off severe bushfires was one that (inaudible)?
Now you are in Melbourne today to make this announcement. How much will the Victorian result from November, which climate change was a really big concern for voters, how much is that playing on your approach to climate change from now until the election?
If I can just jump in on that, from the Victorian election there was a lot of criticism and blow back from previous Liberal voters who did not vote for the Coalition in Victoria because of a lack of climate change policy.
Just a couple more on the politics of this. Malcolm Turnbull said in his final press conference, that the truth is the Coalition finds it very hard to get agreement on anything to do with emissions, emissions issues and climate policy issues.
Are you better at bringing the party together on this issue than Malcolm Turnbull, is that what you are saying?
Dr Katie Allen was pre-selected as we just mentioned in Higgins yesterday.
Are you relieved given a woman was not pre-selected in Stirling.
But it is also about women. What is the great disadvantage of taking too few women in the Liberal Party ranks to the next election?
A couple of quick ones to finish on. Labor has announced today a levy on banks.
It’s a levy on the banks to help people who are struggling in financial circumstances and can't get good advice and it is a follow from the Royal Commission, of course.
Well ok, we will hear from the Opposition today about that issue. Just one final one, Ita Buttrose as the chair of the ABC.
We have been pretty positive in the newsroom this morning about Ita Buttrose being the chair of the ABC.
Given this poll out today, are you disappointed with that, that you haven’t had a bounce in the polls? Because you made a big thing of the difference between your policy and also the Opposition’s in terms of Medivac and asylum seeker boats.
Australians though are seeing all of these colleagues of yours resigning, Julie Bishop the latest one. A lot of women resigning from the Party.
But you are, you have got to admit, you are pretty short on women in your ranks. Are you looking at bringing in quotas? How are you going to rectify that, because it is not a great look.
So why are you spending an extra $2 billion if you are reaching the target comfortably? Are you going to set new lower targets?
So this Climate Solutions Fund is the renamed the Emissions Reduction Fund?
It sounds like you like renewables and renewable energy has a real place in this?
Your colleagues slammed South Australia for their batteries and renewable energies.
Now you’ve gone in hard over the past fortnight to try and discredit Labor on border protection. This Newspoll though shows things haven’t shifted.
You have been accused of scaremongering on this issue. Do you think that that’s not cutting with voters?
Now, you are taking the fight to Labor on the issue of climate and your Party we know has been tearing itself apart on this for years. It has brought down leaders on both sides of politics.
Because I guess that would make people why we need to spend another $2 billion to get there, because you have said in the past as you have said now we will meet those Paris targets by 2030, and you used the language in a canter, so why do we need to do this spending?
We know how crucial credibility and authenticity is in politics and you were the Treasurer who came into Question Time with a lump of coal talking up fossil fuels. I guess the big question for voters is how can they trust you to turn things around on climate policy?
China says media speculation on this is heightening tensions between the two countries, is that right?
No, no, but are tensions being heightened? Are tensions with China heightened?
Fair enough. What… what have they got on us? Whoever did it and whoever did it, what information they got now?
Is there any is there any evidence or suggestion that could have been an attempt to interfere with our democratic process?
But wasn't there a warning to upgrade the system in 2015, three or four years ago?
But would I be correct in saying the area that's been hacked has a lot of personal details and on a lot of voters?
The reports are in Nauru though, limited medical evacuations and stopped remote assessment by doctors. Is that right?
But if they have done that, it certainly reinforces the strength and undermines your argument that it's weakened, doesn’t it? If they have done that?
ASIO also says the leak on their advice was incorrect and you were in part using that leak publicly to convince us the boats were coming. Are the boats still coming?
Is it correct the US has refused entry to 265 people from Nauru who wanted to go there?
But I mean I'm worried that the situation. The US could say these 265 people are not coming here but do they end up in Australia?
So under these changes they could still come to Australia? Rejected by the US for security reasons, you’d assume.
Oh good. Why should we trust Border Force? I mean, they have mucked up this footballer, Hakeem al-Araibi.
But he wouldn't have been there of Border Force had done their job properly.
A couple of minutes prior, are you happy Mathias Cormann, your Finance Minister, took a junket, free tickets for a family holiday from a company that had just won a billion dollar contract? Is that… it doesn’t look good.
Well what about another case, a former Minister and a Minister Michael Keenan and Michaelia Cash refusing to cooperate with the police investigation. That's outrageous.
It's reported today they refused to give statements to federal police, is that right?
Well I thought everybody should cooperate. You would hope, that didn’t happen here in Victoria.
OK speaking just quickly of Victoria, a three billion dollar cheque you us for a road down here. Are we going to get it?
Well if you’re not re-elected do you want to be opposition leader?
Thank you for your time. Could I just begin by saying that politicians rarely get praise.
Can I come to that in a moment, just on basically what you saw. I mean, how long did they tell you… I know the military have got about 150 personnel on the ground.
Yes, they don't want the councils. They're worried about the council, it’s separate from the graziers.
There’s still an area the size of England underwater. There’s still an area the size of England underwater.
You said you'd cut red tape so that small business operators – this is at the bottom end of the market - could get $25,000 disaster relief payments. Philip Alexander, the supermarket owner, told you that no one fitted into the category and he said I can't handle this paperwork.
Can I just raise this with you - and I wrote to you about this - but you have said quite a few times since Friday, you've talked about a 10 year rescue plan. PM, many of these people won't be here in 10 years.
But for the workers, it’s due for the worker as well, it's due for the small businessman in Townsville.
Where does the money come from, to go out and buy the fence posts, to be able to start fencing hundreds of miles that have been destroyed?
Okay just a couple of things before you go. Kerryn Phelps has been in Parliament for five minutes, we now face 2008 revisited, when Labor abolished the Pacific solution.
And temporary protection visas. That cost us 16 billion dollars.
What is the problem with Nauru? I don't understand what the problem with Manus is, I mean there’s 64 professionals there, half of them are doctors.
You should open a detention centre there. What's the point of going to the polls, if in fact migration policy and refugee policy is going to be determined by doctors?
I will just confirm, you already have, sorry - it was last week, before this rubbish was passed – a Transitory Persons Committee don't you? I think within the Department of Home Affairs and they meet once a month?
That’s right, they assess the needs and seek urgent medical care, the mechanism is in place and there have been transfers from the Papua New Guinea or Nauru since July 2016.
That's already being done. So basically, this is a heap of humbug.
Well if the Labor Party - and this very political, I know he’s pretending it’s not –
And I think the public feel that way as well and it is political. He’s saying; “Oh, get the politics out of it.
Yes, I know. Well listen we thank you for that, we'll talk again and we'll keep you posted on the feedback from the farmers as well.
You’ve acted as Immigration Minister, you know more about stopping boats than anyone else in Australia; will people smugglers re-start their trade because of this bill?
Is it right that there’s already been a reaction in parts of the world where people smugglers ply their trade, that there’s already chatter in that part of the world?
I can remember a Four Corners investigation into people smugglers and some of them that were based here in Australia and that was the case.
I remember the interviews with some of the people and they were just saying; ‘They kept lying to us and lying to us and lying to us about where we were going, what we were doing, what would happen when we were on the boat.” That’s obviously what they do.
Have our intelligence agencies actually heard any chatter though, because it’s being reported by David Speers, that he’s been told that Australia’s intelligence agencies believe that “the beast is stirring,” since the passage of the medevac bill? They’re trying to ensure that the beast doesn’t wake up, the beast of course being the people smuggling trade. Have you been told by our intelligence agencies that there is chatter?
One of the issues here obviously is that when people get a medical transfer to Australia then a lot of them then launch legal actions to stay. I think out of those who have come here, more than half of them have done that, engaged lawyers and said; “Righto, I’m not going back.
And if anyone is trying to convince you to change your mind, forget about it, it’s game on.
Can I just tell you what they’re saying though on struggle street. They’re not harsh, we’re not harsh about foreign aid, our foreign aid bill is $4.
But are you going to throw any money in there to restore and rehabilitate these people?
How would you like to get a concessional loan though, you can’t pay it back.
Absolutely true. Look, this has come back this Kerryn Phelps bill.
I was under the impression that you would be voting against the bill.
But there is an argument that that would create a constitutional crisis and you’d be frightened of going to an election.
Well where does this business come from about you proposing a so-called ‘medical transfer clinical assurance panel’ to quote, “Provide clinical assurance on decisions about medical evacuations.” In other words, you’re not going to outsource it to two doctors but you’re going to actually agree with the Phelps proposal.
The Kerryn Phelps… just one thing, can I sum up. The Kerryn Phelps Bill as I see it simply, in language that struggle street understands, is outsourcing immigration policy to two doctors.
Well PM, he has already supported it. Labor have supported it in the Upper House.
But just summing up simply, because you’ve got to get this message through simply. Doesn’t even such a minor change, isn’t that really an incentive to people smugglers to start up?
One of the messages that kept coming out in the last few days is that you’re looking to find a back door way to avoid the Phelps vote. But if it goes to a vote, you’re prepared to stand and fight on principle?
Just let me allude to a speech you made last week, you said it’s important to remind all of us that our economy cannot be taken for granted. That the economy is real, its impacts are real, and most importantly it’s about people.
That’s right, $20 thousand million, I’m telling you to say it and I’ve got it mixed up myself. $20 thousand million worth of taxes.
Let me take you to a point that Chris Bowen has made which, if I might say to you, critically I don’t think your Government has addressed. I’ve never heard a more nonsense observation, he said, “Why are we the only country in the world who would let people claim an income tax refund when they paid no income tax in this year? It’s generous but it’s not sustainable.
It’s a good argument, that. They’ve paid tax all their life, that answers that argument.
And Kim Beazley argued, and Simon Crean who was the leader said, “We must do this because it’s fair.”
And look, they’re angry because in the 2016 Budget the Liberal Party hit them with superannuation changes when Tony Abbott and you were elected under the same banner in 2013 said there wouldn’t be. I’m going to ask you a question, put you in the hot seat, will there be any changes if you’re elected next term on superannuation or do you rule them out?
Can we just take this negative gearing thing, just very very simple. I mean, there is a bit of a housing crisis at the moment.
So if suddenly that incentive doesn’t exist, I’ll take my $600,000 and I’ll put it into BHP shares. Therefore, there is less rental accommodation.
Can I just be a bit critical of you here if I might. Do you think you’re fighting on too many front? I think with an election coming, there are certain issues here which really dramatically… I mean, I’m not really worried about tariffs on kavas or whatever you were talking about in Fiji.
Right, these are powerful points. See, if you take the Capital Gains Tax.
There’s nothing wrong with making a quid. They’re going to increase the tax on the Capital Gain by 50 per cent.
We’re going to go, you’ve got to go somewhere else. You’ve been everywhere today.
…investing in new, coal-fired power station this side of an election? Do we think anyone is going to get into the market?
No, I’m not suggesting that at all PM. But people have been talking underwater.
But coal today, in the ABS stats, is our number one export. It’s propping up everyone’s budgets right around the country, yet we’re treating it like it’s a demon property here in Australia, likes it’s kryptonite.
There’s the camera, what do you say to the Australian people? Coal is going to be a part of mix.
He made the mistake of speaking to his players when they were really facing personal crisis. If that’s a mistake, I’m on Shane Flanagan’s side.
Before we have a proper chat we should take care of business because we’ve been saying that we’re going to do ‘Smarter than Suse’ so let’s do that first and then we’ll have a proper chat after, see how you go against Sue.
So Suse is in the sound proof booth, you can testify to that ScoMo.
It is legit she can’t hear us in there. Now I don’t if your people behind the scenes have explain the rules or I’ll go through it here.
So what you’ve gone on, I’m going to ask you five questions. You’ve got 30 seconds to answer those five questions, OK? Now if you want to you can pass and we’ll come back to it.
But Suse never gets beaten on time and if it’s a draw the person with the quickest time wins.
If you say don’t know I’ll just go straight on to the next question.
Name the comedian who withdrew from hosting the 2019 Oscars? Dunno?
You burnt some time there, that’s what I’m sort of saying but that’s alright. Not bad, not bad on time you had five seconds left.
Here she comes now by the way PM you are playing for Brenda from Aspley so if you beat-
She’s one of your constituents. Is Aspley one of your seats? I don’t know what that would be um, I don’t think is.
I was just checking my previous results against ah, I beat Turnbull.
Susie says it distracts from the fact that I’ve got a huge nose and I’ve got a forehead, a massive forehead and googly eyes and I sometimes put her off so she’s asked for me to wear the ski mask-
Do you do that with any of your employees, do you ask them to wear a ski mask?
Can you imagine if you answered that incorrectly? That would have been worldwide news today.
And we hand over the official sticker which I’m sure you’ll appreciate.
Brenda out at Aspley picked up 100 bucks too and maybe a vote for you I’d have to say.
[Inaudible] in traffic, what you realise is how quickly Brisbane is growing, I mean Ash drives from the coast every day I did it this morning from down at Coolangatta and if you’re not past Springwood by 20 past 5 you’re done, like it’s gridlock at that hour, people are up early, there’s so many more people on the roads so it’s moving, the wheels keep moving.
Have you noticed the scooters around? Because Brisbane is like the test city for those electric scooters.
I reckon they’re brilliant, yeah. So what do you reckon about them? Do you have an opinion on them yet?
I mean you could have idiots riding ‘em because that’s human nature but you know on the whole they’re getting people off the roads you know, getting people scooting-
I would never step on a Segway, it seems incredibly dangerous to me.
And the PM was telling a story, sorry Suse, PM was telling us off air that you swim every day, like you started incorporating swimming into your, into your routine now.
Not a tip I was going to, I was actually going to say don’t wear budgie smugglers-
But he was making his, that was the worst picture by the way, but he was making his kids’ sandwiches with wholemeal bread. Don’t do that to your children.
The Coalition has been in an election losing position in the polls for virtually its entire term. You have members of your frontbench choosing not to contest the election, high profile independents are running in key Liberal seats, cashed up groups like GetUp! are targeting you in vital marginal seats, all this against the recent backdrop of Coalition disunity and instability.
When you’re talking about, as you say 1.25 million jobs, also income tax cuts, more spending on health and education, return to surplus, a ten year plan to eliminate debt.
On this point though that you’ve exceeded, that your government has exceeded expectations the Coalition record, doesn’t that pitch simply confuse voters along the lines of ‘well, hang on if your record is so good why did you need to dump Malcolm Turnbull?’
On policy you also have a plan you were discussing today, a ten year plan to wipe out debt, but that would mean for that plan to reach fruition the Coalition would be re-elected three times, there would be no external shocks. What do you say to the suggestion that that’s a plan at best based on rose coloured glasses and at worst a fantasy?
Sorry, just while you’re on debt, you’ve been in office now for six years, you point out that Labor had a debt problem. Net debt at the end of their term in office was $202 billion, net debt today is $341 billion, you’ve taken it in the wrong direction.
While we’re on Labor, you’ve said repeatedly today that the Australian economy will be weaker under a Labor government because it will impose higher taxes.
But the Howard Government imposed a very big new tax on Australia, the GST, are you saying they weakened the economy?
But by your logic, if higher taxes in and of themselves generally weaken an economy, a country like Norway should be weak but it has some of the highest taxes in the world and yet the average Norwegian is richer and has a higher standard of living than the average Australian.
On the 1.25 million jobs that you’re promising if re-elected, of those how many will be filled by migrants?
Of the million jobs you’ve created how many have been filled by migrants?
Would it surprise you that half of the million jobs you’ve created were filled by migrants?
Let’s quickly run through some other issues before we run out of time. The Banking Royal Commission, does your government commit to implementing all of Commissioner Hayne’s recommendations?
We’ve seen evidence in those hearings of banks effectively stealing from customers, for example charging people for financial advice that they never intended to provide, would you expect criminal charges to flow from the Royal Commission?
Three of your ministers, as I mentioned earlier, have said that they won’t recontest the federal election. You’ve said today that it’s offensive that their stated personal reasons for leaving are twisted into politics, for a political motivation.
Perception is everything in politics, and three ministers quitting gives voters the perception of rats deserting a sinking ship.
Well haven’t three ministers in a row by saying they… [inaudible]
Just quickly, if the Coalition loses the election do you commit to staying on as leader of the party and therefore opposition leader?
Well in that vein I look forward to seeing you twice in the election campaign, thank you very much.
Before we doing anything seriously, you went to Hemingway’s. Tell me, you went down there to have a few drinks with people down at Hemingway’s?
Please tell everybody. By the way, do you keep your finger on the pulse of tourism? I mean, you were involved up to your neck for years?
Now we’ve got to get stuck into some of the matters of the day and of course there’s $60 million you’re pledging to build this so-called Cairns Tropical Enterprise Centre. We’re talking about tertiary hospital status.
Do you know what we’re excited about up here? It’s the 48 day party to celebrate the 250th anniversary of James Cook and the Endeavour. Let me just read this from the Cairns post today, a likeness of the; “little old man whose gift of a broken spear to Captain Cook is considered Australia’s first act of reconciliation.
A whole lot of people, including myself, didn’t know the ins and outs of that first - not confrontation - it was a genuine expression of getting on together. It goes back 250 years, it’s a great story.
Do you know - I don’t know how old you were in 1988 - but when the big event, the ships around Australia, those beautiful sails when they came into the inlet the place was chock-a-block. So many people remember that day.
Let’s go to a couple of serious matters now. Last time you were up here we had that incursion there up at the Daintree, people trying to get into Australia, the boat sank, you know the story.
I want to take you to another matter basically it’s self-interest, but we are talking about the future of our port at Trinity Inlet. Now there has been a lot of talk about the expansion of Naval Facilities up there at Manus Island.
You used this term “strategic port status” I don’t know if it is going to be strong enough to unshackle the restraints on our need long term for dredging work. Now there is a smaller project underway at the moment, it’s about say a million cubic metres, a lot of people say we need a project of four and a half million cubic metres which was planned several years ago, but we have had our future there undermined.
Peter Hughes is a survivor of the 2002 attack and says he is angry at the early release.
He just hates Westerners. He just hates the way we are and he just loves the fact that they killed so many people and he was involved.
Now you have expressed already, can I say, disappointment in the release, the early release of Abu Bakar Bashir. What can you convey to the Indonesian leadership about our feelings on this sensitive matter here in Australia?
Now this is a matter of some celebration up here I would imagine, this is from today’s Courier Mail the rate heart disease and premature death in North Queensland will be targeted under a $12 million Federal Government plan to send cardiology clinics to the bush. This is Greg Hunt, he’s revealing an extra mobile cardiac bus.
Look I’m glad you agreed to take a couple of calls, but we have to snappy or your staff will start waving at me and winding us up. We had John on the line, he’s not there yet.
Good morning, good morning. One of the biggest issues that we’re facing in north Queensland and actually most of the northern part of Australia is insurance.
Yeah the problem is, if we had the economy that was going and that we had jobs and we could create an income for ourselves, the problem itself we could almost manage. But the problem is because the economy has ground to a halt, you know, we hear constantly that we’re going to move a government department here or we’re going to dredge the channel, we’ve got this project that’s going to start, we’re going to have a tourism hub, we’re going to have all of this.
“I’m doing everything legally.” But they’re running people back tens of thousands of dollars.
I’ll make it brief. We’ve been over-promised to buggery by Warren Entsch and there hasn’t been too much achieved, I’m not real happy with him, two things but – they’re probably ways to sort everyone’s worries; the flag, mate.
“We know that people living across north Queensland hugely value their local Medicare and Centrelink services and the decent quality jobs that exist to provide those essential services. That’s why ads are so important,” advertising, “to ensure voters are aware that these services and jobs are under threat from privatization and labour hire”?
Your staff are on the verge of mutiny here so I’m going to let you go.
He’s doing a wonderful job and the other thing I’d love you to do up there if you get half an hour, go to the museum. It is such an eye-opener and you will just love what is on offer up there.
Can we chuck him on the team, because I think we’re struggling a little bit out in the field.
Now, you’re also here for a big announcement around Cooktown and Captain Cook’s voyage around Australia. ScoMo, what is going on?
Can I just be honest here, ScoMo. I was questioning whether this Government’s priorities lie, because as a woman in this country living through a domestic violence epidemic, coming fresh off the back of the latest horrific crime that has happened against a woman, I was waiting to hear kind of the next move on that and then this kind of come out of left field.
Well I hope so, because we want to keep you accountable, we are all voters.
And as a woman in this country, as a woman that watches these news reports time and time again, I just hope that this epidemic is really being taken seriously.
Well, now we’ve covered the big topics, that got a lot more heated. Can we do the fun now? Let’s have some fun, ScoMo.
Because if you were yelling at each other across the thing and you know, it’s kind of like, it almost gives you a little bit of a prop up doesn’t it?
If you see me walking the halls of Canberra, I’m having a look. Go to the cubicle.
And we both had a bit of a tease of each other about that. But look, politics is a serious business and you respect people professionally.
I mean, Chloe and Jenny get on quite well, actually, because they’re conscripts to what Bill and I do.
My last question for you - might have more after that though - is there a red phone in your office that you’re afraid if it rings?
Well ScoMo, it’s been a pleasure having you in the studio this morning.
100 per cent. Well don’t forget, make sure some of that money keeps coming up here.
He kills it, he is a very tall human being as well. He intimidates me every time he steps into studio.
And the money that you’re bringing for them, around $5.75 million I understand?
As you fly to Cooktown today you’re going to be flying over the world heritage listed Daintree Rainforest. Now, there was a Federal Parliamentary Committee last year that recommended the Bloomfield Track be sealed.
Okay you have personally supported the coal industry, people might remember you bringing that piece of coal into Parliament on that occasion a few years ago?
Sure, now in our area though, reef, rainforest, many environmentally sensitive assets as well. Do you think the Government’s approach to environment, to climate change, could potentially cost votes in Leichhardt?
Okay, so in the Leichhardt fight, Warren Entsch is going up against a female candidate. Do you have enough women running in winnable seats across the country?
You say you’d like to have more, so that means you don’t think you have enough.
He suggested that people like Kevin Andrews and Julie Bishop should be stepping aside to let new talent come through, potentially some of those new women into winnable seats, potentially. Does he have a point?
Speaking of Julie Bishop, she’s talked about potentially re-contesting as well. Have you spoken to her about that and in fact, would there be a position for her on your front bench?
Let’s talk a little bit just about the impending election as well. I mean just a few days of Parliament left, the delivery of a Budget and calling the election.
We’ve had a few callers ringing in as well, asking about ABC funding. These are people from more regional locations as well, who aren’t serviced by as many other media outlets.
It’s coming up this weekend, you’re going to be out there in far north Queensland in the heat and the humidity. You know you’ve made those propositions about maintaining it - being when Councils can actually do the ceremonies – this idea of actually banning shorts, thongs, these sorts of ideas, why legislation like that? Why spending time on stuff like that?
Enjoy your trip to Cooktown as well and we’ll be hearing more from you as you deliver your announcements there today. And I’m sure we’ll see you again right?
We spoke at the end of last year and I know that you were looking forward to having a little bit of time with your family as much as you could. Did you get a few weeks, how much time did you actually get to down tools and enjoy the family?
Did I hear you right that you said that people haven’t warmed to him?
I have spoken to, in the first hour of our program today, a mate of ours Jamie Warden who is a farmer in Walgett. He was saying the rivers are drying up around Walgett as well, there’s algae growing around rivers there.
Sadly, it doesn’t always flow through. The money doesn’t always flow through and I don’t expect you to be able to do anything about this and it’s a very specific case but Jamie has just taken us through Walgett, for example, where you’ve got money that’s been given to the council for a weir or an artesian board to help out with water supply and the council still hasn’t spent the money.
There has been a terrible spate of suicides in Indigenous communities. We have had five teenage girls taking their lives in two weeks.
There seems to be an annual debate about Australia Day and whenever that debate comes up I think about issues like those young girls and think well this is what we really should be talking about.
Australia Day is Saturday, you’ve changed the rules so that local councils will be forced to hold citizenship ceremonies on Australia Day and you’re also bringing in a dress code for citizenship ceremonies. You’re banning thongs and board shorts.
But most people dress up for an event like this right, and if someone really wants to embrace Aussie culture by wearing traditional Aussie clobber, why stop them?
You were photographed over the break wearing rainbow coloured board shorts. Have you thrown them out?
Just ask your daughters, ask your daughters whether or not they should be consigned to the Vinnies Bin will you?
We’ll talk to you regularly throughout 2019, thanks for joining us from Cairns.
Well said, thank you so much for joining us, we’ll talk again soon.
What does it say about diplomatic relations that it's taken five days for Australia to be involved, or to have any access in regards to this, when the arrangement is that it's supposed to take place after three days to have communications?
Well one of the sentiments we are hearing in letters to the editor and people concerned is about the franking credits and some of the decisions you've made on taxes. Reducing what pensioners might be able to access, these small amounts.
Given the economy has already started changing since you made these announcements, and certainly on negative gearing, how committed are you to these policies, and are you ready for an election that is basically going to be a tax referendum?
Every primary school student will have access to swimming lessons under a major policy announcement being made today by Labor. It follows a summer drowning toll which has shocked lifesavers around Australia, 65 deaths since the start of December.
Clive Palmer has been copping some criticism for sending out mass text messages. Will the ALP be doing that in the lead up to the next election?
It certainly is. 1,600ks to cover so he has got a long way to go.
As I said, I'd like viewers to try and understand the basic facts as well as the politics. So let me ask, do you support the Government's policy that people who end up on Nauru or Manus Island will never be allowed to resettle in Australia?
Does Labor support boat turn backs and will that policy continue if you're in office?
So you reject Mr Morrison's suggestion that if this Phelps Bill were to pass that it would give people smugglers an opening to restart the trade?
We know that this Bill has now been delayed until Parliament resumes next year, that's a few months away, a couple of months away, what happens to children who need medical evacuation during that period of time?
The Government's accusing Labor of being weak on national security again, because of some of your concerns about the encryption bill. This morning you did vote in of it despite saying you wanted more time to consider it, despite concerns about the way it was drafted and despite the Bill containing amendments that you hadn't seen.
Let's go to some of the other issues that were on the radar this week. The Government says it will return to a surplus from the 2019 Federal Budget.
Does a very positive position on surplus mean you anticipate staying in surplus?
At the last election when Labor proposed to wind back negative gearing, the housing market was experiencing much stronger growth than it is now. Now in some places it is actually going backwards, houses are losing value.
Sorry to interrupt, but, and what's going on in the property market at the moment doesn't give you pause on that?
Finally, 2019, there's an election year as we've alluded to several times, for all of the campaigns in memory, the leaders of the major parties have committed to two prime time interviews during the campaign on 7.30.
Well, the Liberals have been belted in Victoria and today's Newspoll has Federal Labor 10 points ahead of the Coalition. This next federal election impossible to lose from here?
There are a number of Liberal held federal seats that could now be in play. Is that your view of it? Corangamite, Chisholm, Deakin, Dunkley - those kind of seats - maybe even Flinders and Casey.
Well those very promises that you just ran off there, that Daniel Andrews was promising, you know spending on schools and hospitals - we heard the Federal Treasurer on AM suggest that obviously the Federal Coalition is going to have to counter that kind of campaign, that kind of spending. They've now got plenty of money in the coffers we're reading.
Big spending, higher taxing, aren't you? That's according to the Government. 
I want to come back to the Budget and how that might play out in a moment but in terms of ideas - there are already calls coming from within the Liberal Party for them to be less ideological on social issues and challenges such as climate change.
it says you want to impose a retiree tax. It's pretty tough line to counter, isn't it?
Well, they've got a whole lot of analysis that says 300,000 voters in Labor electorates will be hit.
So what's Labor going to do about that? Are you going to try pursue that in Parliament?
But in all that time you haven't been preferred leader hardly at all, have you?
Dan Andrews was claiming the mantle of the most progressive Government in Australia, is that something you would like to be able to claim if you win?
The lead now you've got in the Newspoll is ten points, the result in the Wentworth by-election was diabolical for the Government, this result in Victoria it's yours to lose now isn't it, this election, a hundred per cent.
Daniel Andrews had a big spending agenda, do you recognise that there is a difference between state and federal sphere in that, do you have to have more fiscal responsibility in that sense and where is that in your list of priorities?
It looks like the Treasurer, Mr Frydenberg will go to a Budget in April, election in May, many of them see this as their last roll of the dice - to deliver a surplus and say look we're the economic guardians. How do you respond to that?
But why didn't you agree to it? The National Energy Guarantee framework was all there. 
And do you feel emboldened by the result in the eastern suburbs of Melbourne? I guess everywhere in Victoria in relation to your position on climate change and your Emission Reduction Targets and so on, is that reflective of a broader view nationwide? 
And just one related question on that, Adani, have you got a definitive position on that yet in terms of when you will back it or you won't?
So if there is a short-term economic cost, you have a 45 per cent target for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, what will be the estimated cost of that to the economy over the next decade, not in dollar terms, but as a percentage of economic growth?
But if you have firms that have to be shifting and making the transition to having lower carbon emissions, that may mean that they have less money to spend on other forms of investment, it may mean they have lower profits so therefore they have less money to deliver in the form of company tax into government coffers. Those things could have a spin-off impact on to the GDP numbers?
I don't assume that there's no cost to doing nothing. I accept your position there's a long-term benefit.
You can't just pluck a number out of nowhere. You've come up with the 45 per cent target.
But if you are choosing that yes we will go with that number, with 45 per cent, you must have done..
But as a government you are adopting it as your policy. You must have done some projections short-term to what that will mean to GDP.
30 in April last year you said, "I'm a sceptic of the project, I'm not a fan of the project. I'm happy to tell people my personal opinion.
Various Labor candidates and MPs have had differing positions on Adani, it seems a little confusing what the party's actual position is. What do you say to the suggestion that you've created that situation by saying one thing to people in regional Queensland and one thing to environmentalists?
So what's the point of having it then? Because I seem to recall when it was introduced, it was partly to make housing more affordable?
You say it won't drive housing prices down by very much. Can Australia afford to adopt a policy that drives housing prices down at the moment at all given that the Reserve Bank said in its last minutes that rapidly falling housing prices are currently a downside risk in the economy?
I'll come to some of those points in a second. I just want to ask about another of your controversial policies which is superannuation.
Superannuation I'm talking about. Paul Keating and others set up superannuation so it would entice people to save for their retirement so they would be less of a burden on Government across all demographics.
You spoke about the tax on income versus the tax on capital. Paul Keating made a point in a letter to the editor of the Financial Review last August that having 49 percent as the top marginal tax rate is way too high, especially when company tax is 30 percent.
Everybody would agree with that but doesn't it set a precedent -
Doesn't it set a precedent for the Federal Government to pay wages for other private sector workers in the form of direct subsidies?
But as I said, when we go through your policies, a lot of where you're getting your revenue from is taxes on wealthy people, closing loopholes that mostly wealthy people can exploit and you're wanting to spend money on lower income people. How is that not a form of changing the economy towards a model of redistribution?
If you need to have a glass of water while I ask the question, please feel free.
If - you listed out that list of things that you would like to deliver, the issue for you in an election campaign are that voters have to trust that you will actually deliver on that. Why should they trust Labor to deliver on that? You'd point, for example, just to your last thing there, to chaos.
If you're elected, you're unlikely to have a majority in the Senate. If you can't get through your revenue-raising reforms - super, franking credits, negative gearing and so forth - which of your promised spending will you be dropping?
Now, you’re pledging to spend a lot of money through this campaign. This morning, $4 billion.
More money going to wages for childcare workers. Isn't that a reason for whacking up their fees?
Isn’t the problem though that you’re trying to give something to everyone, and everyone can’t benefit. In the end someone has to pay for this and in this case it will be those childcare providers who will get less money?
Let's go to that. How much are you raising in taxes over the next decade.
You should know some of this now though, what you are raising in negative gearing and capital gains tax, what you’re doing in franking credits, so could you give us a figure over if not the next 10 years, over the next four years as to what you expect to raise.
I understand that, but some of this stuff would be well known to you by now because these are policies you have been working on for six years so can you give us a figure on what you intend to raise by way of cutting tax concessions and raising taxes over the next 10 years?
OK, if you won't or can't give us a figure on what you are raising in taxes, well can you tell people today whose taxes are going to rise in order to pay for these programs?
So you’re saying it’s a big transfer of wealth from people’s pockets into government’s pocket. Why would you spend it any better than they will? 
Isn’t it a matter of priorities that you also then let people know as soon as possible where this money is coming from, because you are actually arguing for very big change in Australia and people have the right to have enough time to know where that money is coming from and where it is going to.
It's a big change and it's a big risk. Why should people trust you with that change?
Let's assume people weren't focused though, for example when you get asked through the course ..
But when you were asked during the course of the campaign are you lifting taxes on super you should say yes, shouldn't you? 
But you were asked about whether or not workers on over $180,000 are going to pay more tax, that's true too isn't it?
Sorry I will stop you there because you are not. If you are earning more than $180,000 a year, you are going to lift people's taxes, aren't you? 
A couple of other questions, were you aware of anyone at all who is acting on Labor's behalf who was talking about preference deals with Clive Palmer? Were you aware of anyone in the Labor Party or in the union movement that was talking on your behalf?
Not committing you to but starting conversations about the possibility of a preference deal.
You've got a big program, why wouldn't you want to debate everyone and everywhere.
Who qualifies for the money? How much will they get and is it paid to parents or to child care centres? 
But where will the money come from? How are you going to pay for it?
Lots of families will be looking at that policy very closely this morning. I want you to have a look at this one, the Coalition is this morning announcing that it will cap Australia's refugee intake  at around 19,000 - that's half of Labor's planned increase.
On George Christensen, what do you think he was doing in the Philippines for 294 days? 
Well I'll tell you what he wasn't doing, he wasn't doing his job. This bloke has to be the laziest politician in Australia.
LNP candidate Gerard Rennick has been caught spreading conspiracy theories about climate change and some curious ideas about your preschool policy. What action, if any, should be taken against the candidate, and can you guarantee you would also apply that same standard to any of your candidates caught in a similar situation?
When we talk about projects like Adani, our position has always been clear. If it stacks up environmentally and financially, it should go ahead.
Related. So you are confirming that you are not going to sign this CFMEU pledge to not stand in the way of Adani.
In relation to the pledge, I'm not sure how many people have actually read the pledge. But it talks about the very issues I just spoke about.
The ACTU wants to see the minimum wage rise by $50 a week. Is that the sort of increase you want to see?
How do you expect small businesses to cope with the costs that you're loading them up with, with these increases?
Can I ask you a question about costs because costs have started to become a theme of the press conference. We don't have an answer to the cost for small businesses when it comes to lifting wages because we don't know how much you would like to lift wages.
Just on the Greens, they want to end coal mining by 2030. Some in Queensland would say that is an extreme policy.
Will there be any cost to business under Labor's climate change plans?
The Australian is suggesting that your carbon credits policy would cost Australians $25 billion. I take it it's a figure you reject.
Thank you. Isn't this issue starting to get a bit away from you? Is it a bit glib to blame News Limited? Shouldn't you announce the costings, bring that forward, bring voters in on your plans?
A report in the paper today states the McKibbin report estimates that it would cost businesses $25 billion by 2030 to buy the foreign carbon credits. Can you say how much money you believe Australian businesses will have to pay to buy these carbon credits over the next decade? Is this the $25 billion figure accurate? Is it more? Is it less?
I understand that figure was from the McKibbin report, isn't that a bit outdated now? 
People are looking at the hiccups and stumbles at a time like this when you are focusing on an upcoming election, and such was the case yesterday afternoon, where you were seen to not answer a question that was asked by a journalist, and we have another question from a listener from Owen, asking what are the costings for your renewables and greenhouse gas emission policies, you owe it to the people of Australia to be transparent on this.
I mean, the thing with these climate change policies, these policies take time. You know, natural disasters are not going to stop the moment a good policy is agreed to.
Vote Compass is the online tool that ABC is using during the election campaign to gauge Australians’ views on the policies, taking the personalities out of it. The number one issue here in Western Australia is not the environment, but the economy, and that is the concern, and that is where they don’t trust you.
(laughs) Not seeing what’s coming down over the road is quite an amazing analogy because I don’t think even you could have realised that electric cars were going to be the hot spot that it is. But the hot button issue –
Every time we talk about it, we get loads of people talking about it, for and against.
A lot of people make the point that $3000 or $2500 is what pays for their health insurance every year, they make arrangements years in advance based on what you call a gift so why don't you grandfather these arrangements? 
And now Josh Wilson supports a two-state solution in Israel and that is also causing you some tension? 
We have watched the Budget and your reply very, very closely. Why is the Newstart allowance, an increase, not an ALP commitment? 
Would you look at changing it so that it, the annual indexation is similar to what happens with the pension?
Substantially, I mean I know you can't commit but it needs a good hike..
Who do you imagine is on Newstart when you picture it in your mind's eye? 
52-48 two party preferred. Based on that, it would be a landslide to Labor.
Firstly, to the news of the morning, what is your response to the arrest of Julian Assange overnight?
What do you make of America confirming overnight that yes indeed it does want to extradite Julian Assange to the United States?
Should the Australian Government, any Australian Government, Coalition or Labor seek to stop such move?
It’s not the Government, it’s the Treasury figures. Are you saying the Treasury is lying? They are very similar to figures put out by Chris Bowen the Shadow Treasurer a few days ago.
To another tax concession Labor is promising to wind back to some degree, negative gearing. The NAB has put out a report this week saying it expects house prices in Sydney to drop by 20 per cent before this fall is over from the peak in 2017.
Just about out of time so confirming there will be no change at all if you win government to the negative gearing plan? 
Just wanted to confirm that. The CFMEU is asking all Queenslanders to sign a pledge to support the coal industry.
I'm not talking about them, I am talking about the CFMEU. I am asking the question? Do you believe that union is bullying your QLD Labor colleagues?
Well, the bookies are the best bet of how things are going to play out and your odds of winning are better than you'll get with Winx at the track tomorrow.
Well, you are promising to make life easier for Australians, but new treasury costings which the Government has released show you'll hit households with $387 billion in extra taxes over the next decade. Do you really think voters will welcome paying $5,400 a year more in taxes under Labor than the Coalition? It is a potent argument.
A lot of retirees though, many of them who are on modest nest eggs are not millionaires, they’re worried about your changes to the franking credits. A lot of people who have got investment properties, a lot of them are not millionaires, are confused and concerned about your crack-down on negative gearing and capital gains tax.
That concern, that if you punish the banks in a certain way then credit might dry up, is that a reasonable thing to keep in mind when you decide on penalties?
He wants an effective banking system, he doesn't want credit to dry up.
So, do you commit to adopting all of the recommendations of the royal commission?
You've come up with a recommendation of your own around the new protections for whistleblowers but it’s this financial incentive that’s thrown in as well. Why is that there?
But you talk about white collar criminals, and in this case that’s who you are targeting, and yet you oppose an ABCC in the area of industrial criminality.
Couldn’t that be the risk though, the reward. It could be quite large, it could be as much as $200,000 in big cases - could that lead to vexatious claims?
I want to ask you about housing prices now, housing prices have gone up in Sydney and Melbourne by close to 10% in the last 12 months. There are predictions - have fallen by 10%.
But will your changes to negative gearing mean that houses will be even cheaper?
But by ‘modest impact’ it will cause a further decline in the price of houses.
On the franking credit issue, you can see that it’s causing you more political harm because it's not grandfathered and you also can see that some of the people who will take the hit here are not wealthy.
But it does exist and a lot of people have relied on it for a long time and you are copping some backlash over this - the government is making quite something of it - are you prepared to have another look at it?
When you say you're not for turning, there will be no tweaking of the policy at all?
We're just go to a package and we will come back to you. We’ve got a bit of a problem in the studio.
And just to explain what happened there, one of our cameramen had a bit of an episode. He seems fine but we've got an ambulance on the way.
Because of that development though, do you think that will have an impact on the thinking of some of the crossbenchers, and I’m thinking Cathy McGowan in particular and she might now be satisfied with that and she won't then support the Labor initiative?
You must be very heartened by what occurred in Victoria at the weekend, it was a Labor landslide in your home state?
What about today's Newspoll, the Coalition's primary vote down to a near-record low of 34 per cent. It really is unlosable for Labor, this next election?
You say you don't take any notice of polls but you do have a problem with your popularity. That Newspoll suggests that while voters want Labor in government, they don't think you are the right leader.
You mentioned that national anti-corruption watchdog, saying you will work with the Coalition but not wait for them. Just explain if you could how exactly that watchdog would work under Labor?
It needs a multi-pronged approach, doesn't it? What else do you propose to do?
You’ve got to tell us, do you own a Burberry trench coat at this point, and if you do, I’d get rid of it very quickly.
Right, that's probably a very good move. It was a huge result though.
But hypothetically, would you think about putting heat lamps in the bathroom?
Dan Andrews has said the Victorian State Government is the most progressive state government in the country. Does that mean that Matthew Guy would have had a better chance if his last name was Mathew non-binary?
It is a little bit about you, you've got to admit that, and you know you've got not that much time until the next election.
Okay renewables revolution, so it will start with what, 100,000 homes?
This is going to take a while. It's not exactly a renewable revolution if only 100,000 people can do it?
I just don't know how many people are going to be able to afford the $10,000. How long will it be before the batteries have paid back the initial investment?
What difference will it make in terms of power supply on the grid?
Ok, this is 7 years. Have you thought about cheaper ways to reach your energy targets? Will there be a carbon tax under a government you lead?
South Australia made a big shift towards renewables and we all know how that ended and how reliable their power was - can you guarantee this power will be just as reliable as to what we have now.
So even though conservative politicians bag renewables, the actual Australian public is adopting it.
Okay so you put the $3000 to $10,000 battery in, you get $2000 back but it will cut your power bill by 80 to 90 per cent?
Fantastic to have you on and thank you for your time. We know you're a very busy man.
Bill, did you really think we would be here celebrating one year since the Yes result?
Well the people who bullied us at school - that's how I looked at, those people that bullied me were going to now make the decision.
Correct. We will be talking to someone later on to actually talk about the financial impact that marriage equality has had.
No but it was hard. And I'm going to say, you know, Wayne and I have been on TV on Gogglebox, we became poster boys for hate.
Look we are going to thank you for it - getting the Labor Party on board as well as the trade unions. You really, guys coming out there, you were there at every rally we saw you.
Well you are the leaders of the country and we do look towards Canberra to lead us and thank you for standing up and doing it.
Well I mean that's what we're meant to do, that's what we stand there and do you know?
Bill there's some significant issues facing the world at the moment, climate change being one of the biggest. We wasted over a year being distracted by same sex marriage, what could have been done quite quickly you know there's Safe Schools, keeping people in detention, there's other preoccupations of this current government.
Well when the politicians are talking to the average person we then feel part of the process, we then can move along with you, we understand what laws are changing, why we're moving in that direction, if we're just thrown stupid law at us we're going to fight them back.
And then we ended up with the extremist political parties coming in who seem to be getting all the airtime. They seem to be the ones that cop it.
If people see a direction they're happy and that's what you said, you explain where you're taking us, why you're going and if it's not going to work in 12 months, 2 years, 3 years we reevaluate and move back through. We don't just go - 
And Australia always has been a country where we've taken care of the underprivileged or those who are unable to take care of themselves.
Bill if elected you've committed $10 million towards construction of the Victorian Pride Centre. 
You've also promised $600,000 towards building new digital studios for this radio station.
Yes, and you can see we've shown you Joy is falling apart, and I promise I won't spend that $600 grand on my shoes. It will go to proper things here at Joy.
Do you think the marriage equality debate highlighted the need for such community outlets? 
Definitely. And that's - when you're talking about the ABC at moment, I mean, they're in a bit of shambles.
You've likened political interference in the ABC to a dictatorship, we're sick of the ABC bias towards Playschool. We want Mr Squiggle back.
But I was reading this morning on the train that your lovely Deputy, Tanya Plibersek, actually is putting through a Senate Bill to actually try and remove the discrimination for the religious schools.
Yes, who promised that during the Wentworth election that he would have that removed within two weeks after that there. Hasn't happened.
Bill, importantly, according to a La Trobe University study, 80 per cent of homophobic bullying involving LGBTI young people occurs at schools, and has a profound impact on their wellbeing and education as you can imagine, let alone the ongoing impact on their adult life. Will you be open to funding a national Safe School's program again?
Look, the money is fantastic, you know you've got my vote - well you've definitely got out vote. 
And it's not just that, but the Pride Centre is going to be a very important thing.
Okay, let's start with the business end of things. You've promised to crack down on multinational tax loopholes for companies and individuals.
A lot of these wealthy individuals get themselves lawyered up and you're talking about international boundaries and international laws here. I think it's unfair Aussie businesses pay full freight as well but it's been like that for a long time.
It would be good to clean up those multinationals who are using those loopholes, it would be a good thing. Okay, there are reports also this morning you are going to increase the dole after you get elected, is that true?
The flip side will be that people out there say, hang on a second you don't want to encourage people to be on the dole. 
The reality is Bill, you don't actually need to do anything. You don't need to be on our show, you don't need to say anything, you just need to be quiet and you will win the next election.
You don't want to run the risk of bringing yourself undone though, I mean you're in the box seat, you've basically won the race.
Happy Halloween to you this morning. Are you going trick or treating this arvo with the kids? Maybe you could go around Malcolm's house, he has got plenty of goodies for the government.
Yeah, that's the big issue out there but can you legislate? Can you use the Parliament to ensure wages go up? 
Alright. Just before we let you go, Australia has woken up to five different time zones this morning.
Bill, come on! We know our own Simon Reeve is beside himself about daylight savings, living in Queensland -
Alright, Bill. Well you're looking alright for one hour less sleep overnight.
I'm well, thank you. It is an expensive program that you have announced here for 15 hours for 3 year olds now? 
Do you plan to fund this out of any savings that you plan to make to the Budget should you win government?
Well these are the next generation of the kids clearly matter to you according to that policy yet at the same time you stand here today and you won't promise to get 112 kids out of detention on Nauru despite the appalling mental health conditions their detention has created, despite calls from Australian doctors at the AMA, pediatricians, psychologists, so not all kids are equal hey?
Alright, let's move on to something else, the ACTU Secretary, Sally McManus, has attacked enterprise bargaining as a failed system. She is giving a speech tonight in which she will say that it has exhausted its productivity benefits and is now about competing on wage costs.
Yeah and as I mentioned earlier, clearly everyone's recognised you know, that the next election is going to be, if not largely on wage growth, and probably all about it, and who can claim that they can increase it will be the winner. If that's the case, then you really need the left of your party to stay on board with you, don't you? Instead, you have key unions reportedly this morning threatening to withdraw financial support because you continue to support, for example, the TPP.
I get that and fair enough, but I do want to pick you up on a point you made there on the Government and them being a house divided.
We have had that on your side, of course, but from my perspective, it is interesting this morning, looking at a whole suite of things going on in the country, growth at what 3.4 per cent which is damn healthy, you've got the AAA credit rating is back, employment is growing albeit part time but that's been the case for a long time now and some apparent stability now in the Government.
But just paying for it though, where are you going to get the money?
The problem is the Coalition are almost back in surplus, they are just better at managing the economy, aren’t they?
The state governments aren't happy again with the GST carve up, will you support the changes?
If the approval ratings keep going the way they are, you're not going to start looking over your shoulder are you? Albo is ravenous. 
One final one for you, I was thinking about you at length the other day, not that I do a lot of that -
- a mad republican you must be incredibly pumped about this royal visit?
She has got very good taste, good on you thanks for your time Bill.
And you were in a position with the union at that stage, weren't you?
And what made you want to come back to Gippsland, to take time out of your schedule and attend this memorial?
So that's why you're in Gippsland today but I want to ask you about this education funding as well. We've just been talking about the extra $4.
Yeah I mean, in saying that, you'd support this extra $4.5 billion funding though, wouldn't you?
We just had a chat with David Baker, the principal of Gippsland Grammar, and he was saying he gets fed up with this discussion whenever we're coming up to an election and that private schools like his are extremely important in educating kids in places like Gippsland. Do you support those comments?
Do you feel like the Australian people though, have lost confidence in their politicians –
Look, thank you very much for your time this morning, I appreciate it.
What is the answer to that? Why is it now suddenly critically important?
But how much ambiguity? Christian Porter points out there now - that you've got the situation now where you need absolute certainty, otherwise you want to refer it to the High Court?
Why wouldn't you bring it on to a vote when Julie Bishop has virtually invited you to do so?
So you're worried that they might be bluffing and in the end, they wouldn't support you?
The Royal Commission into Aged Care. Now, I presume, based on what you have said in the past that you will support the idea?
But is it about funding? What is it that seems to be at the core of this? What is the problem with aged care?
It couldn't be wrapped up and then responded to between now and the May election, could it?
On the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the TPP, you've raised concerns in the past about this, quite substantial concerns, in fact, and now you're on board. What happened?
I don't think that the unions are satisfied that you can sort all of this out after the event. The Australian Manufacturing Union has described it as a disaster and a break with Labor policy.
Another policy, the energy policy, the NEG, the National Energy Guarantee, is certainly dead to the Government. But is it dead to you? Are you thinking about using the NEG as a basis for your policy and then perhaps adding your own targets?
You did seem to accept all the way along that the NEG was a good framework?
Over the weekend, your environment spokesman, Mark Butler, said of the Adani mine that he's against it. Are you with him on that?
What do you think the prospects are of it going ahead if Labor was to be elected in the next election?
And the public service. Now, you made a similar request to Malcolm Turnbull and he was, I think from memory, open-minded about it at the time?
But what sort of things are you looking at? What sort of things go on in everyday political life that you want to nail?
Now I'm quoting some commentary that I heard yesterday but are you measuring up curtains for the Lodge at the moment?
Now, understandably with everything that happened last week people really want some certainty right now. I'm sure you're hearing that.
Have you spoken to or approached the Governor-General to discuss the constitutional impasse that may be on the horizon?
Your party did the same thing, I remind you, not that many years ago.
Do you have a problem if Julie Bishop is nominated and installed as the next Governor-General even before the term of the current one expires? 
No all of them either way. Does the Labor Party run dead in Wentworth or do you run a serious campaign?
And apart from anything else, if you're going to look at constitutional change, if you're going to look at arrangements in the Parliament, what about making proper constitutional change? From time to time ideas get floated about everything from the Republic to a Makarrata. But what about fixed four year terms? They're working in state politics around the country.
Do you deal with the dual citizenship issue that's caused so much havoc in the last 12 months as well?
Let's get to one of the other big announcements this morning. The Victorian Labor Government, campaigning for the November election, have announced today that they're going to commit $300 million to an underground outer urban rail loop.
For increasingly crowded cities. Melbourne hit 5 million population yesterday.
And congestion is directly tied to immigration which was one of the drivers for the Liberal Party's unrest last week.
So on immigration, simple yes or no answer, do you want to change the way we do immigration? Do you want to reduce the number of people who get permission to move to Australia?
So you agree with Alan Tudge, the newly sworn-in Minister, who says let's try and get migrants to go to the regions rather than Sydney and Melbourne.
All right, the Financial Review front page says Morrison sticks to Paris, the Morrison Government will resist internal pressure to walk away from the Paris climate change target. 
28th of August, Adani, yes or no? On the 28th of August because it seems your position has shifted from time to time on Adani.
Yesterday a boatload of Vietnamese people arrived up at the Daintree River in far north Queensland, is that a failure of Australia to secure its borders?
Alright. I don't want to make you late for your next appointment and we've gone well over time already.
Malcolm Turnbull called some of the people in the media partisan and thought that they stepped across the mark. Do you think that, do you agree?
Do you agree with Kevin Rudd's assessment that Rupert Murdoch's a cancerous influence in Australian politics?