My fellow Australians.

At this election you have the power to change our country for the better.

You have the opportunity to take Australia into a new decade; with new vision, with new purpose and with a new Labor Government.

I make this promise to my fellow Australians that if you vote Labor, we will put the fair go into action:

A pay-rise for wage earners
Help with the cost of living for families, including cheaper childcare
And at long last, dental care for pensioners, covered by our Medicare.
If you vote Labor, we will deliver a better deal for the next generation – real investments in education and real action on climate change.

If you vote Labor, you can end the chaos in Canberra - by electing a strong, stable and united team focused on serving the people of Australia.

The choice for you, the choice for our country, is clear.

It can be more of the same - or a change for the better.

Division and drift - or unity and purpose.

More cuts to health and education - or better schools and hospitals.

Rising cost of living and stagnant wages - or a better deal for working families.

The choice is clear. You can have cowardice and chaos on climate change - or courage and action.

This is the choice for every citizen of our great nation:

Three more years of smug, smirking, unfair complacency under the conservatives…

…or a bolder, better and more equal future for Australia under a new Labor Government.

Now, friends, before I go any further, I’d just like to thank my darling wife Chloe. I love you.

And I am sure that everyone here and across Australia can understand why I am happy to be known as Chloe Shorten’s husband.

Thank you, Annastacia for making us welcome and thank you for so many state and territory Labor leaders for joining us today.

And to Tanya and Penny, thank you for your friendship, for your counsel, for your strength - thank you for being a constant reminder of the difference it makes when a political party has real commitment to equality for women.

And I count myself so fortunate to sit in a Shadow Cabinet with the people on this stage: smart, dedicated, passionate and they have a vision for doing the big things for Australia, thank you very much.

Every leader needs a good team – but I’ve got the best one on offer at this election.

I acknowledge also the traditional owners of this land. I pay my respects to elders past, present and emerging.

And I pledge that our Labor Government will match these words of respect with action.

Earlier today, our Senator Patrick Dodson, the father of Reconciliation - the man I hope will be the next Minister for Indigenous Affairs - launched Labor’s First Nations Policy.

Real justice.

Good jobs and stronger families.

Healthier communities and better housing

And a Voice enshrined on our nation’s birth certificate, the Constitution.

And friends...

On behalf of every true believer, I acknowledge the great P.J. Keating.

Now Paul, you might not be aware of this, but a few months ago Peter Dutton said that the big problem with Chris Bowen and with Labor is that we want to deliver “Paul Keating’s unfinished business”.

Now he meant it as an insult...

We cannot imagine a greater compliment in Labor.

Paul, you are a wonderful source of advice to me and my colleagues, a source of great inspiration to every Labor person. I thank you.

And of course in my very first week that I served in the Australian parliament, I and all of us had the privilege of hearing Prime Minister Rudd deliver the National Apology to the Stolen Generations.

Kevin... that act of leadership, that act of decency, that act of healing wasn’t just a great Labor achievement, it was a great national moment.

It proved and you proved that government at its best can speak to the better angels of the Australian nature. Thank you very much, we will never forget it.

Now friends, I am a Collingwood supporter, so I’ve been to some pretty big games.

But I reckon, I do reckon that the loudest roar that I’ve ever heard in my life, was in the Great Hall of the Australian Parliament last year, when thousands of survivors of child abuse cheered the Labor Prime Minister who called that important Royal Commission: Julia Gillard.

Julia, you had the humility to listen, the courage to act, and because of you, justice is no longer denied to thousands of our fellow Australians.

And today I am proud to announce that we will double the number of caseworkers working in the National Redress Agency to speed up the processing and delivery of long overdue compensation.

Everyone in the Labor family would like to leave a legacy; your legacy is one which is truly splendid.

And finally, I’d like to address a bloke who cannot be here today, but I know that he and Blanche are watching on television, the one and only Bob Hawke.

Bob, we love you, and in the next 13 days, we’re going to do this for you. Thank you Bob.

Friends, today we sharpen the argument.

Today we make the choice clear.

Today I present the case for change.
Our great country needs real change - because more of the same is simply not good enough for Australians.

And nowhere is this more clear or more urgent, than the economy.

Our economy is not working in the interests of working people.

After six years of Liberal-National cuts and trickle-down economics:

Wages growth is at record lows.
One million of our fellow Australians want more hours of work but cannot find them.
One million of our fellow Australians are doing two jobs at least, just to make ends meet.
And our economy is running on empty... the fumes of zero per cent inflation last quarter.
But none of this is by accident.

The Minister for Finance said so himself: low wages are a ‘deliberate feature’ he said, of the Liberals’ economic plan.

The Liberals are the architects of low wages growth - and they’re proud of it. And after six years, these are the consequences:

People with less job security
People with less money to spend
People paying more for everything
Living standards flatlining.
And we all know what’s coming next, if the Liberals and Nationals get another three years.

They want to give $77 billion dollars - the number the Prime Minister refuses to say out aloud - they want to give $77 billion dollars of taxpayer money, to the highest tier of income earners in this country.

And you just know - in your bones - that if the Liberals get back in, the Prime Minister’s personal passion project, his $80 billion giveaway to big banks and big business, will be back on the table.

Now I do not know the details of any secret deal that my opponent has done with Clive Palmer to lock-in his preferences…
But I tell you what, no-one gets something for nothing from Clive Palmer - and I bet that big tax giveaways for big business will be right in the mix.

And, friends, here’s the thing - whether you give $77 billion to the richest Australians or whether you give $80 billion to the biggest companies, this money has to come from somewhere and from someone else.

If you take out these tens of billions of dollars, it means more cuts to schools. more cuts to hospitals.

And - as we’ve already seen in the most recent budget - it means cuts to the National Disability Insurance Scheme.

Now my opponent keeps saying this is no time to turn back. I say that this is not the way forward for Australia.

If you want to stop the next round of cuts to your school and your hospital and your community, then on May 18, vote Labor.

Now if we win this election, our priority is not making the very rich even richer… it is getting wages moving again for working people.

Starting with laws to restore Sunday penalty rates in our first 100 days.

A new push for equal pay for women.

A better deal for casuals.

Cracking down on the abuse of 457-style visas.

Cleaning up labour hire.

And, for the lowest-paid Australians, converting the minimum wage into a living wage, because no Australian adult who works full time should be trapped in poverty.

Labor rejects an American-style wages system, where working people have to rely on tips just to make ends meet.

Now of course we will consult, we will work with the independent umpire, we will respect the capacity of business and the economy to pay.

But I know I can deliver a better deal for working people through negotiation and co-operation - I know, because I have been doing it for 30 years.
I know, you know, and we know, that this country works best when we work together, when we strive for a win-win outcome.

Indeed, for business, that’s what Labor’s Australian Investment Guarantee is all about.

New analysis out today shows that our extra 20 per cent tax deduction for employers who invest more than $20,000 in new machinery and greater productivity and better equipment…

This tax deduction for business, this reward for businesses to invest, will create up to 77,000 new jobs.

And--win-win--deliver an increase in average wages by up to $1500.

That's what I am talking about.

A win for business, a win for workers, and a win for the economy as a whole, because more money in the pockets of wage-earners, means more trade for shops in the high street and more confidence across the board. That is what we call a win-win, good for business, good for workers, and good for Australia.

Friends, today as we make the case for change I am proud to put youth unemployment on this election agenda.

Because young people, youth unemployment is more than double the national average - it is much higher in many communities.

And what a waste.

What a waste of hope and human potential and alongside youth unemployment, I want to put age discrimination on the national political agenda, we want to stand up for older unemployed workers.

There is a battle that nearly 100,000 older Australians face, when they are in longer periods of unemployment, when they are looking for work.

A battle which some older Australians have just surrendered in, been forced to give up.

You know who I am talking about.

The older workers who have copped the rough end of economic change and cannot get themselves back in the game.
Not for lack of effort, but the lack of a chance. I see it at every one of the town hall meetings I have been at.

There is always very well-dressed, quiet, older people, often clutching, in a plastic sleeve, their CV.

They do not speak up in the middle of a meeting, they come up to me at the end of the meeting.

You can see it in their eyes -There is a sting of rejection. There is a sense of injustice.

This recurring question: why won’t someone give them a chance?

How did Australia come to be a country where once you are 55 and 60, you are just wiped?

Why is this disinterested job service providers simply shuffling them off to one unsuitable interview after another?

This is Labor.

We believe that young or old, city or bush, every Australian regardless of their age, regardless of their post code, has the right to the dignity of work.

That is why today I am proud to announce that Labor will create a New Jobs Tax Cut.

We’re going to make it easier for small businesses to create new jobs for people who have been looking for work for more than three months.

Companies with a turnover of under $10 million dollars, who take on a new person under the age of 25, or over the age of 55, or a parent or carer just trying to get their foot back into workplace.

Under a Labor government, small businesses up to $10 million dollars, will be able to claim an additional 30 per cent tax deduction on the salary, for up to five employees.

We are going to keep faith.

Our New Jobs Tax Cut is an investment in the potential of our young. It is an investment in the experience of older Australians. It is an investment in participation for parents and carers.

I will keep the promise I have given to 80 town hall meetings to those older workers, to the young people in rural Australia, Labor has got your back.

This is a fair go economics at its very finest.

When Labor understands that when we extend opportunity to any Australian, the benefits are shared by every Australian.

So whether it’s secure jobs or decent wages, if you want a better deal at work:

Do not vote for more of the same.

Do not vote for a Prime Minister who voted eight times to cut your penalty rates.

Vote instead for the Labor party that’s spent 125 years championing fair pay for working people in this country.

And if youth unemployment or discrimination against older Australians means something to you, or has touched someone in your world…

Then vote for the only party with a plan to help.

And if you’re sick of the uncertainty of living shift-to-shift, payday to payday, waiting for a text message each night to see if you’re working the next morning.

If you want more security than that, more dignity than that, more respect than that, more opportunity than that - vote Labor on May 18.

Changing Australia for the better means helping families with their cost of living.

Private health insurance is becoming a luxury - so we’re going to cap premium increases at no greater than 2 per cent for each of our first two years, while we make the system fairer.

Electricity bills, well they are out of control - so we’re going to fill the void and the thirteen energy policies of failure of this government and we are going to get more renewables into the mix, to get prices down.

And for so many families, paying child care is now a full-time job.

If we want to be a fair and productive and modern nation, then we can’t continue with this ridiculous situation where women in particular, are spending their whole salary on the very child care that enables them to go to work.
Our plan will deliver better subsidies and cheaper childcare for every family who earns under $174,000.

A million families - a million families.

Families who earn more than that, they will not be worse off.

Nearly 1 million families will be up to $2,100 better off per year, per child.

And if your household income is under $70,000 your child care will be as good as free.

We will make child care cheaper for families but we are also going to deliver an overdue professional pay rise for our early childhood educators.

We are not going to leave it to the invisible hand of the market, or pass the cost on to parents.

It is time our country gave more respect and fair reward, to those early educators, to whom entrust out children to give them the best start in life.

And what we are going to make sure is that any opportunistic providers who try and raise their fees on the back of this good news.

Well, we have got some advice for them: a Labor Government will look at every option to keep the costs of child care rises down - including price control.

So the choice for working families is crystal clear: if you want cheaper child care, if you want real help with your cost of living
vote for a Labor Government on May 18th.

Friends... Our opponents want to enter Australians in a race to the bottom in pay and conditions. But many of us know that there is nothing for our country on the low road of low-skilled work for low wages.

There is no dignity or hope or security for our people down that path and there is no marvellous economic opportunity either.

There will always be countries with bigger populations, prepared to pay people less to make stuff cheaply.

We cannot win that race nor should we be in it.

The future I see for Australia is the high road: high-skill jobs, high productivity, growing the economy by investing in people and building our nation.

Here are some numbers to think about:

150,000 apprenticeships and training places have been lost under the Liberals in the last six years. We are going to bring them back for Australians of all ages.

We are going to have new carers for the National Disability Insurance Scheme, new knowledge for the digital economy and new skilled workers in the clean energy technology industries of the future.

Our exciting plan for 50 per cent renewables means less pollution and lower power prices but will also bring tens of thousands of high-quality new jobs here to Australia.

We are going to build new infrastructure from:

The beef roads of Western Queensland, to
The Cross-River Rail in Brisbane, to
Basslink Two in Tassie
Metronet in Perth
The Melbourne Metro
The South Road in South Australia
Upgrading the Bruce and the M1 and the Ipswich motorway, and
The tourism road in Kakadu.
So many more projects and tens of thousands of new, affordable social houses for our people.

We are going to invest in new industries: hydrogen in Gladstone, battery manufacturing across the nation, ship building for our defence and merchant marine.

We will back things that Australia does best in the world - from farming and mining to advanced manufacturing, science and tourism.

And we will deliver strong budget surpluses to pay down the debt that these delinquent Liberals have doubled since they have been in office.

We can achieve this plan for growth, this investment in people and infrastructure because we’ve made the responsible reform decisions for the long term.

We will end the intergenerational unfairness in our tax system that puts property investors ahead of first home buyers.

We are not going to keep sending tax cheques worth $6 billion a year to people who are not paying income tax.

And the days of Australia being treated as a doormat by tax-avoiding multinationals ends on May 18 if we are elected.

Today, I announce a new reform that will prevent big corporations using dodgy royalties to avoid paying tax in Australia, returning over $2 billion to the bottom line of the Australian balance sheet.

Our economic plan is not about hand-outs for the top end and everyone else going back.

Our plan is about building and growing and diversifying the economy from the ground up, from to the regions to the cities, making it work in the interests of everyone.

And, of course, for any Labor Government our vision always begins with education.

The world and the region that we live in is changing more rapidly than any time in human history. So much is different, so much is uncertain, but one truth is guaranteed.

The best investment that we can make is in the potential of individuals. And the future of our economy is education.

Now, my Mum was teacher. She was raised in a Labor house, she knew the Whitlam words.

"Liberate the talents" and "uplift the horizons" of the Australian people.

That is what education does: "Liberate the talents" and "uplift the horizons" of the Australian people.

And this great national mission begins in the early years. 90 per cent of a child’s brain develops by the age of five. Every expert, every smart country, every parent knows this.

This is why, for 15 hours a week, 40 weeks a year, a Labor Government will deliver universal pre-school and kindergarten for every three year old and every four year old in Australia.

Imagine. Imagine the benefit. Every three year old, every four year old: the best start in life for the next generation.

That is what makes every parent get up in the morning and work as hard as they do and every government should work as hard as every parent to develop the best for their children. That is why we will put back every single one of the $14 billion dollars that the Liberals have cut from our Australian public schools.

We know individual attention from great teachers is not a luxury, it is a necessity.

Proper help for kids with special needs, it is a national responsibility, not to be left to parents to feel isolated and just to get attention for the child they love.

We know that languages and art and drama, music and sport and camps should not depend upon the personal generosity or the fundraising ability of parents and teachers and cake stalls. A cake stall is not an education strategy. Putting $14 billion back, my word, that is a plan for education.

We are going to put free back into free education in this country.

And when you think about the importance of change in education and proper funding, it is not only important, my word it’s urgent.

Nine out of ten new jobs created in the next five years will require either a university degree or a TAFE qualification.

So, instead of pushing up the price of degrees, Labor will uncap places and open the doors of university to another 200,000 more Australians from the bush, the suburbs and the working-class families.

And I say to those working in our great public TAFE system, help is on the way on May 18, after years of cuts, years of neglect, we are going to rebuild public TAFE in every sense of the word.

$200 million to upgrade the TAFEs and 100,000 places where we pay the upfront fees.

TAFE is in our Labor DNA, and it is at the heart of our plans for Australia’s future. I want your kids to be able to get an apprenticeship and if you want to retrain, I want you to get that chance at a public TAFE.

This is the compelling case for change on May 18th.  If you want opportunities instead of cuts, if you want investment instead of neglect, if you want an education system that liberates the talents of every Australian and uplifts our horizons, there is a very straightforward way you can make this happen: vote Labor on May 18.

Friends, I think it is fair to say sometimes that we can overcomplicate politics because in the end what matters most to Australian families is straightforward.

If your family’s okay and your health’s okay, then everything else flows from that.

But if that is in jeopardy, everything else is difficult. So, when you look at this election, one of the biggest differences and the sharpest contrasts is in health, is in hospitals, is in Medicare.

Anyone who’s rushed their child to hospital in the middle of the night knows Australia has some of the best healthcare workers in the world.

But years of Liberal cuts, not keeping their promises, forcing public hospitals to do more and more with less and less, they take their toll.

Put bluntly our Emergency Departments, despite the best efforts of the staff, are over-crowded and under-funded. They are not as safe as they should be.

One in three patients with an urgent condition doesn’t get seen within the recommended time.

Now, there is no complicated problem here, it is a simple question of dollars and resources.

The Federal Government has cut the money to the states and is starving the system of resources.

So, today I announce, as part of our $2.8 billion Better Hospitals Fund, that we will put in $500 million to upgrade Emergency Departments and to bring down waiting times, right across Australia.

Now, when we talk of medical emergencies, we think of the wailing sirens and urgent operations.

But there is also a medical emergency, an epidemic, tearing through suburbs and the bush.

It’s parents giving eulogies for their children.

It’s young schoolmates going to the funerals of their friends who they had no idea that they were doing it tough.

It’s communities hollowed out by grief.

Now, we’ve made progress in shrugging off the stigma of mental health in this community but the system is still too fragmented, it is still too hard to access, too many young people are still falling through the cracks.

Australia has to change this.

So, to start our investment in the next wave of mental health support, and I acknowledge the presence of Australian of the Year, Professor Pat McGorry here, Labor will put in $197 million to trial four new Headspace Plus centres, meaning more resources and more community-based health care for young people in Brisbane and Sydney and Melbourne and Tassie and as those trials work we will roll them out further.

Now, if you managed to watch the Sky debate the other, on Friday night, there was, one lady asked a question there, she was asking about the need of diversity for service providers. I told her I was listening to her then, and can I just say to her now, I get it. Labor gets it.

She asked about Kids Helpline. As a first step, we will invest $6 million in Kids Helpline to ensure young people can call a counsellor for help - 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Now all of us who have participated in elections often hear from the pensioners - the mighty army of 2.6 million age pensioners, the people on the Commonwealth Health Seniors’ Card- and they sometimes feel forgotten.

As their fixed income is being undermined by the cost of health care going up and up, quite often when the ads stop rolling and the polls close, it’s the pensioners of Australia who are left asking “what about us?”

Well not this time, friends. This time Labor hears you loud and clearly. This time we are offering a generational change in Medicare, for the pensioners.

We are going to provide, we are going to make sure that three million Australian pensioners and seniors can get overdue help looking after their teeth, for the rest of their life. Pensioner dental.

No more waiting in queues, no more putting off your teeth health because you can’t afford it, the help you need, when you need it.

The legendary Bill Hayden is here today, a founding father of universal healthcare in our country. He knows better than anyone - it was the current generation of pensioners who were the workers of Australia 35 years ago who gave up wage-rises to help create Medicare.

So this dental care for pensioners, the next step, because of the reforms we are making, is a small way of repaying the great debt we owe that proud generation who gave us Medicare to begin with.

And - friends - no matter where you live, no matter what you earn, we are going to make sure Medicare is there for you when you most need it.

It is a shocking statistic that 1 in 2 Australians will be diagnosed with cancer across their lifetime. The odds are that if it is not us, it is someone we love.

And the more shocking number is that the most reliable predictor of whether or not you will die from cancer is not actually your general health. It is not even your family history. It is your income.

Now we have a special guest here. Kristen Larsen is here, she is a star. Diagnosed with Ovarian Cancer at 21. She has been battling it for six years, with the help of her fabulous sister and family, and helping others along the way. She knows the financial burden of cancer treatment.

In those oncology day wards you get to talk to a lot of people, and she knows people who have not been able to afford to pay for treatment.

Kristen summed it up for me, at the day oncology ward at the Royal Brisbane Hospital. She said: “When you’re fighting for your life, money is the last thing you should have to worry about.” Kristen, you being here reminds me of what is important. You remind all of us what is at stake, why we do this, why we seek office. You and your fight and your family matters to us.

Every one of 145,000 people diagnosed with cancer this year matters to us.

Every one of nearly half a million people having treatment for cancer matters to Labor.

So if we form a government on May the 18th, we will make sure there is an additional six million cancer scans and tests and three million more appointments with specialists and oncologists all covered by Medicare.

Cancer makes you sick - but in a rich country like ours - it should not make you poor.

And that’s what we’re going to change in this country on May the 18th.

Now, I know that politics is a contested business, I understand neither side wants to give the other an inch at election time. But I was a bit surprised and disappointed even by this government’s standards that when I announced our Cancer Plan, I deliberately left the door open for bipartisan support.

The Prime Minister didn’t even pretend to give it 10 minutes thought, before he sneered that on one hand it was not necessary because the treatments people need were already free and on the other hand, he argued our plan would cost more than we said.

This is what is sick about the political debate in Australia, this is what is broken inside the government.

Whenever this current, business-as-usual, threadbare policy mob are confronted with a new idea, a good policy, a clear plan…they always look for an excuse to say: No.

How often throughout this campaign have you heard the Liberals and Nationals say about Labor’s plans, our initiatives for everyday Australians, they say “Australia can’t afford that”.

They say it while they give multinationals a free ride.

They say that while they subsidise property investors to make a loss on their sixth house.

They say that while they send tax refund cheques to people who did not pay income tax..

And they say it while working behind the scenes to spend tens of billions of dollars on tax cuts for the top end of town.

You can only not afford a plan to help people with cancer treatment if you are spending it on other matters.

This election is about choices. So please before you vote, understand this: every time you hear the Liberals say “Australia cannot afford it” what they really mean is “you don’t deserve it”.

They say Australia cannot afford it, they mean you do not deserve it.

By contrast, my goodness I am proud to lead a team that believes Australians deserve the best: the best in everything from defence and national security, to our social safety net.

And when it comes to health, if you want shorter waiting times in emergency and for surgery, more hospital beds and more nurses, dental for pensioners and new help in the fight against cancer.

If these things make sense to you, if they matter more to you than protecting loopholes for the rich, and taxpayer-funded welfare for the wealthy, if you think that your family’s health is more important than a multinational company’s tax avoidance strategies, then your decision on May 18 is very easy indeed: vote for a Labor Government to put the health of Australians ahead of the tax rorts at the top end of town.

Let me cast your mind back to the 2016 election.

Malcolm Turnbull- a name you will only hear at a Labor event- promised the country ‘stable government’ - but he was taken hostage by the right wing of the party, his party.

At this election, Scott Morrison cannot promise you stable government - because he’s already taken himself hostage by Pauline Hanson and Clive Palmer. And three more years of this Coalition of Chaos would mean more years of delay and denial on climate change.

At Friday night’s debate, the other fellow, having spent his every day in the job arguing that pollution was going down, the Prime Minister was finally forced to admit that under the Liberals pollution is going up.

And yet he still has no plan to do anything about it.

A decade of broken politics proves that half the Liberal and National Party simply don’t believe climate change is real…and the other half just don’t care when push comes to shove.

I don’t know which is worse - but I do know Australia deserves better.

In the next 13 days, our opponents and their vested interests will throw everything at us on this issue, find every excuse not to act on climate change.

But I promise Australians, and I promise all of those Australians who want action on climate change, and I promise the young people in particular, all Australians: Labor will stand its ground.
No retreat on real action on climate change. We will stand our ground. We will fight hard, we will defy the pseudo-science and the scare campaigns.

If we have the privilege to serve as the next government of Australia, I will not bring lumps of coal to parliament for a laugh, while temperatures soar, bushfires rage and flood and drought batter our land.

We will not tell our children that the politics was too difficult or the future was too hard. We will not say that we knew what needed to be done but we lacked the courage and the conviction to do it.

We will build a renewable energy future for this country.

We will cut pollution, we will help industry modernise, we will empower our farmers, we will rescue our rivers, we will save the Reef and protect our precious environment.

We will not run nor hide from the problem - we will get on and do something about it.

And on this issue - perhaps above all others - the contrast and the case for change is night-and-day, black-and-white. If you want to see real action on climate change, you need to vote for a Labor Government.

Friends in our time in Opposition, we have united around a bold and comprehensive vision for the nation.

And our case for change rests on the great things we are determined to do and achieve for our country’s future.

Everything from equality for women, to getting the NDIS back on track - our agenda is ambitious.

It aims high. It aims as high as the people of Australia aim high for themselves.

We are choosing hope over fear.

We are choosing the future over the past.

We are choosing a real plan over petulant name-calling and empty scare campaigns because we won’t accept second-best for Australia.

We will not impose second-rate options on this nation.

We do not want second prize for the Australian people.

And in the 13 days remaining the choice for our country and our message to the people is as vital and simple as this: if you want better hospitals and schools, not more cuts - vote Labor.

If you want unity and stability, not three more years of chaos - vote Labor.

If you want to tackle the cost of living and get wages moving, not more tax loopholes for the well-off and the wealthy - vote Labor.

If you want real action on climate change, not more chaos and denial - vote Labor.

So today this is our case for change.

We say proudly to all Australians: end the chaos.

Vote Labor.

Vote for real change.

Vote Labor.

Vote for your family’s interests.

Vote Labor.

Vote for your future.

Vote Labor.

For a Fair Go for all Australians, wherever they live or however much they have: vote Labor.

I'm joined by Linda Burney who, if we get elected, will be an outstanding minister whose heart is entirely alongside yours. We've got a range of politicians here on the progressive side of politics and it’s lovely to be here with all of you. Also the panel at the front and Kirsten Deane, thank you very much and everyone working on Every Australian Counts. There is an election in 15 sleeps. It's actually under way now, there's pre-polling up at North Essendon  if you can't wait. This is my own electorate, I live up the road from here, so it's great I've got a chance to do an event in my own electorate. I saw some posters of me as I drove here and I thought why on earth are they using the old photos of me until I realised it was taken four weeks ago.

In all seriousness though the reason why I went to a little bit about this being Moonee Valley is I went up and had a little chat to Bronwyn Morcombe from Young People in Nursing Homes Coalition. And I said Bronwyn wasn't it here 11 years ago that a number of us met. 11 years ago. How time flies. And I was just a baby minister for disabilities. And the Young People in Nursing Home Coalition have done some good work getting some funding. And it was a big meeting here to talk about the progress of that particular issue. That is the process of making sure that young people, people who are not in their 60s, who might have been in a car accident or suffered pretty traumatic spinal injury. That they were not just given one choice of being in an aged care home. That they might be able to get age appropriate accommodation. So they didn't just have to listen to Frank Sinatra, as charming as Frank Sinatra can be. They had choices and friends. But it was around that time that we started to look together, me and disability advocates, carers, people with disability, started to actually look beyond why are we just having a tug of war over one funding proposal, you know getting people out particular accommodation and that's very important. We started to organise for a bigger idea. That's where I meet Kirsten, that's where I met a whole lot of, some of you certainly. That's where we met in those couple of years. And when there was no National Disability Insurance Scheme at all. Just a patchwork of state programs and government programs, federal government, state government.

And what I learned 11 years ago and 12 years ago and ten years ago was that disability is a fact of life. What really impairs people are the barriers that the community puts in people's path. What I really learned is that there are parents in their 80s and 90s hanging on, awake and anxious at 1 and 2 AM in the morning wondering who will love and protect their adult child when they no longer can. What I learned then is that institutions were very inconsistent in their care. And we've learned since then, and you already knew, but the public's begun to learn of the fundamental double standards which have existed in Australia for a very long time.

What I learned then was that there are hundreds of thousands of people with profound and severe disabilities and millions of people who love them. What I learned then is that effectively through neglect, through bias, through prejudice, through ignorance, through saying we haven't got the money to fix the problem that people with disability were being exiled in our own country to a second class status. And what we did then is we all worked together. You and me and lots of our people, Julia Gillard, Jenny Macklin and many advocates. We said alright why don't we create a National Disability Insurance Scheme. And we did some work. John Walsh and Bruce Bonyhady and a whole lot of people. We did some work about could you fund it. I formed the view a decade ago that disability wasn't an unfundable or an unsolvable challenge, properly funding disability. It's a bit like leaning over a well and you throw the coin down and if the well didn't have a floor you'd never hear the coin land would you? But with disability my view is that even though it took a while for the coin to land this was a well we could fill. Disability is something that if the nation chose to prioritise it we could prioritise.

This is why and I'll come to why I want to be prime minister because this country is about choices. We make a choice on what we want to fund. We can make a choice to give $60 billion every decade on more to people and income tax cheques refunding them for income tax they haven't paid just because they own shares. It's called franking credits. You don't pay income tax, well if you own shares we'll give you a 30 per cent top up. You know it's not sustainable. So there's money in the system. Giant multinationals in Australia who get lots of revenue. Next time you go on your Facebook, next time you fill up your car with petrol, there are big companies. Next time you buy a nice bit of software. There are companies making a lot of revenue in Australia but they don't pay a lot of tax in Australia. So there's money. When a government says they can't afford to fund a new wheelchair, when they say they don't have enough staff, when they say that we've got to keep moving people through and we can't pay the staff properly - that is a lie. In Australia there is enough money. The question is what do you want to spend it on. When they tell you that we can't afford to spend more on disability, what they are saying is you don't deserve any more than what you are getting. It is a lie.

So what we are doing today, and Linda is here with me, is we are announcing and we were listening, I was listening very carefully to the contributions that you were making. It was fantastic. But what we want to do is we want to put people on disability back at the centre of decision making in the NDIA. The NDIS was not meant to be a new bureaucracy. It drives me to distraction when I hear these stories but plenty of other people saying they're doing plan and plan and plan again. When you're being second guessed on your views. When they put a staffing cap at the NDIA and everything else is done by contractor. When they change the board and they have insufficient number of people with the lived experience of disability at every level of the organisation.

In the budget that the government just brought down at the beginning of April they've managed to fund their so-called surplus - not that they've brought in a surplus, it is actually a forecast, so it hasn't actually happened. One of the ways they funded their rice paper thin surplus is by miraculously there's an underspend in the NDIS, an underspend. I said this is not right. What has happened is that the government, because it has let the NDIS get off track, has manufactured a pipeline of funding in the NDIS which means it's impossible to get that money out. The current Prime Minister said there's no problem here. This is a demand driven program. And if the demand of the money we allocated isn't fully utilised this is not a problem. And as we just heard in the previous quarter 77,000 Australians have got plans not met. It's now up to 90,000 as you were saying, plus. So if you create basically a dam of money, the NDIS, but if you build tiny pipes which wont let that flow of money flow out to where all the people need it - if the diameter of your pipe is sufficiently small you will not get out this dam of money to where it needs to be spread. And that is what the government has done. It has set this great idea up to perform only adequately. It has a V8 engine and it's got it cutting the grass. Not good enough.

What we are proposing is that never again can this cut occur. Never again. We've said that we want to create a Disability Future Fund. What that means is as we repair and reform and improve the NDIS, if the money is allocated based on the real demand but because the structure can't allow the real demand to be met in the short term, we will put this money into a special account, and will not only have it only be used for expenditure on disability when we improve the design, but the interest of it too flows back into disability.

Labor gets it. We understand that people with disability deserve a fair go. That word fair go is used a lot. It is used perhaps too indiscriminately to too many situations. But for us the fair go is not just a slogan. It is a manner of organising society. See if you have to spend less time doing repeat plans, if you have to spend less time - and I really found your illustration powerful - working with the NDIS has become a part time job. Unpaid. I get that. So what we want to do is we want to make Australia the best in the world at working with people with disability, provide proper support.

Back 11 years ago when we were right here in this grandstand, another room but in this grandstand, we agreed that we should be better than what we are. It's a very interesting election. This government wants to have the best franking credit system in the world. Fantastic. The most unique system of giving people a tax refund when they haven't paid tax. I don't want to be the best in the world at that. I do want to have the world's best National Disability Insurance Scheme. That is ambitious.

You know I'm going to finish up on something Chris said and we've got the leaflets and the material here. You've heard a lot of promises. You have more right than most Australians to be cynical about the process. I do say to you that my interest in disability is not new-found with the hot breath of an election on my neck. My commitment is more than a decade long and some of you know that to be the truth. My commitment was when we didn't have a National Disability Insurance Scheme. My commitment was when disability would be lucky to be mentioned once in the national budget. I remember in one year when the next year was mentioned twice, I thought progress. But I am not someone content for people with disability to take second place.

I get the importance of the linkages in education and with Tanya Plibersek we are going to create the funding. And I know some of you are parents of kids with high needs or special needs. How you have been made to feel isolated. The kids here who have gone through the education system, you've been bullied. We will find the money in education to do better because we're not going to give multinationals the free ride they've been getting. We will protect the money for the NDIS. But I want to finish as I said on something Chris said. Mildura, regional Australia, being treated as second class, taken for granted by the Nationals. There is a strong Independent running there who's working on the funding for a public hospital. But last, on Monday night, Tuesday night it was or Wednesday night, I did the 7.30 Report. Leigh Sales interviewed us and at the end she said is what Labor really offering the election redistribution, take from the wealthy and give to the less well-off? And I balked at that characterisation. Because the idea of redistribution - and this government uses it, it says oh well if you vote Labor they want to look after some people but not others. That's a lie. I want every Australian to do well but what I won't accept is that everyone starts at the same place. You know they say Labor doesn't like the wealthy. That's a lie. But it is not class warfare to say you shouldn't have to fill in five plans. It is not class warfare to say that there shouldn't be more teachers' aides available to help kids on the autism spectrum. It is not class warfare to say that you shouldn't wait two years for a wheelchair. It is not class warfare to say that you shouldn't have $1.6 billion taken out and used to paper together a dodgy surplus. It is not class warfare to say that when people are not getting their legitimate requirements fulfilled through the NDIS that we demand to do better.

The government says aspiration, that Labor doesn't like aspiration. Well I am in a room full of people who have aspiration. Chris has an aspiration that living in the bush shouldn't mean second class health. Other people here have an aspiration that being in the NDIS shouldn't be a bureaucratic maze. People have an aspiration their kids get a quality education. People have an aspiration that their children can grow old knowing that there is a comfort and support and love. People have an aspiration that their houses should be accessible. People have an aspiration they shouldn't be the victim of bullying because of their disability. People who work in the sector should have an aspiration to get a fair wage. People who work in disability have an aspiration that they just get a fair go.

Labor has an absolute commitment to getting the NDIS back on track. We've got our plans. We've got Linda Burney. We've got all of you. But this election isn't going to be won by meetings like this, although this is a very powerful gathering. It makes me inspired. You inspire me. What's going to change this election - will be talking to everyone else. I learned a very long time ago that disability is not a marginal issue. It's not a niche issue. Every Australian either knows someone with a disability, has an impairment or one day could have an impairment. When you fight and when we fight for you we fight for every Australian. If you want a better deal on disability, if you want a fairer country, vote Labor on May the 18th.

And you know what? Those people who want action on climate change - don’t protest against Labor, vote the government out.

Now Cindy not only do I thank you for what you’re doing, I want to thank you and all of your fellow volunteers, here and right around this magnificent country.

You’re proving that individuals can make a difference in our country, you prove why politics matter, you remind us, all the volunteers here and all the volunteers watching and doorknocking and working today, you remind us why we are so proud to be part of the mighty Labor party.

Here in the fabulous Box Hill Council rooms I would like firstly though to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet. I pay my respects to elders past, present and emerging.

And also whilst on the matter of acknowledgements I want to acknowledge all of the members of my stable, talented, united Labor team here today.

And I say to our candidates throughout Australia and to my colleagues who serve in the parliament, I say thank you for your unity of purpose. I say thank you for your hard work... not just in this campaign... but to my colleagues for the last six years.

Seeing so many of you here today reminds me of something the current Prime Minister said last week. It was a very revealing comment, actually.

He was being asked about his team...such as it is ... and he said:

“I don’t need anyone to prop me up”.

It is fundamentally two different views of leadership I think, him and I.

He thinks it's all about him and I'm proud to lead a united, talented team.

I back my shadow ministers. I believe in the passion, and the idealism and the authenticity and the talent to which they bring their task of serving the Australian people.

You’ve just heard from Penny Wong earlier. Now I know that some people describe my fabulous wife Chloe as my “secret weapon." Penny, you are just the weapon! You are outstanding!

Friends, you can see every day why I’m more than happy to have my colleagues out on the front line, debating the issues, speaking for themselves, setting the agenda and ideas in their portfolios.

Because in the Labor Party that is actually when we’re at our best.

And yet even if he wanted to the other bloke can’t do it can he?

His best people have either quit parliament or left the party. The others are either in exile or witness protection.

I mean Peter Dutton disgraced himself on day two of this campaign even by his own standards.

The Minister for Energy, well he hasn’t been sighted since people started asking questions about his former colleagues in the Cayman Islands.

And the Minister for the Environment has been in hiding so long I’m not sure she even knows that the campaign’s been called.

In fact, the most high profile members of Mr Morrison’s team are probably Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson.

And this goes to a bigger point.  I know the other fellow keeps trying to say that this election is all about him and all about me.

But I say to the women and men of Australia, the people here and beyond watching this, elections are actually about you. About the people of Australia and what we’re going to do for you. And the difference in that plan is clear for all to see in this election.

We offer a bold vision for the future. A Fair Go Action Plan for every Australian. In health, in education, in wages policy, in action on climate change, in equality for women, in helping with the cost of living.

Whereas by contrast the Liberals and Nationals are putting forward the most threadbare policy agenda that any government has ever taken to an election in the history of the Commonwealth.

All they offer is a smug, arrogant, business as usual standstill.

They think so little of the people of Australia in this election that after six years of chaos, dysfunction, cuts all they are really offering is actually two policies.

Trickle-down economics where if the rich get richer somehow there might be a few crumbs for you.

And secondly they’re offering the cynical politics of thinking they can buy the votes of Australians by promising you tax cuts in five years’ time when they've actually been in power since 2013.

Tax cuts that can only be paid for by more cuts to schools, by more cuts to hospitals and shamefully more cuts to the National Disability Insurance Scheme.

But despite all of this, our message to the Australian people is not just a matter of saying “vote for us because we’re not the Liberal Party or the National Party.”

Well that’s not a bad reason to vote for us.

What we’re offering people is a genuine choice. It’s a real vision and we are offering it for every day that we are elected.

And today we gather here to launch a new policy push – to launch a new plan to massively reduce the cost of living for millions of Australians.

At the last election, so many of us stood together to save Medicare.

At this election we’re putting forward a plan to build Medicare.

Rescuing our public hospitals from Liberal neglect and cuts.

Blitzing the waiting lists for surgeries like knee operations, hip replacements, cataracts.

And expanding our universal health care system so that it properly covers the costs of treating cancer – millions of free scans, blood tests, X-rays and ultrasounds.

In fact I can see a friend of mine from 35 years in the Labor movement in the audience today Gary Jungwirth.

Gary the fact that you have come here today – I know your diagnosis of your battle is not good.

But the fact that you love this country so much, that you love this party so much that you want to see change, you being here today, having known you for 35 years, you and Anne, it means the world. And you remind me why we are fighting to build Medicare.

Thank you, Gary.

Now we can and we should take great pride in the fact that Labor created Medicare.

But every new generation has a responsibility to build Medicare, to expand it, to bring even better health care to more Australians.

When Tanya Plibersek was Health Minister, she introduced the Child Dental Benefits Scheme.

$1,000 of subsidised dental care every two years available to around 3.4 million Aussie kids.

This was the first step to making dental care part of Medicare.

But today,at Box Hill I am proud to announce the next step.

If we win the election, a Labor Government will expand Medicare to cover the dental care of three million pensioners and seniors.

Friends, this is a ripper. Our plan will provide up to $1,000 every two years to help pay for dental services for 2.6 million people on the age pension.

And another 380,000 Australians who hold a Commonwealth Seniors Healthcare Card will get the same benefit.

So if you’re one of these three million Australians, from now on, the first $1,000 dollars of dental work you get in a two-year period will be free.

It will not come out of your bank account, it will not go on your credit card, you will not have to delay treatment because you can’t afford the care. It will be covered by your Medicare card.

One in two older Australians has gum disease. The experts tell us that this and decay and missing or broken teeth, carry consequences for your general health too.

And all of us know that these things also undermine your quality of life, your self-confidence, your basic dignity.

And for pensioners and seniors, that’s true also for problems with your denture work as well.

If you can’t get your teeth fixed you are deprived of the simple joys.

It stops you going out for a nice meal. It can make you self-conscious, even amongst family and close friends.

It’s a real problem for a lot of our fellow Australians.

And yet the current government, the Liberals and Nationals have cut $283 million from dental health per year – this is the equivalent of cutting services for 186,000 Australian patients.

As a result the waiting lists for public facilities have blown out. And even worse more and more of our fellow Australians are putting off going to the dentist altogether.

How can this be in a country as rich as ours?

Now Labor’s plan will help free-up the public and the private system.

We’re going to work with dentists to deliver maximum bang for the buck with the minimum of paperwork for patients and dentists alike.

Those details are all important and we’ll work through them - but this promise is what matters friends.

Under a Labor government after May 18 if you’re a pensioner or a seniors health care card holder your dental work will be backed by Medicare for the rest of your life. This is the fair go in action!

Now, I know there are some who will say that this is not the most exciting or eye-catching policy. I think there would be others who will say it is actually.

But I can tell you, no policy matters more to me than making sure our pensioners can get the dental care they need.

There’s nothing I’m more proud of than the fact we will be able to do something that has been talked about for so long.

Something that will make a real difference in the lives of Australian pensioners and seniors.

And friends, we can afford these investments in Medicare because my united team have been making the long-term reform decisions before today.

We believe subsidising dental care for three million Aussie pensioners and seniors is more important than protecting tax loopholes for millionaires.

This ground-breaking investment in pensioner and seniors dental is one of the dividends of our tax reform.

And this is the really important point about all of our reforms. They are about fixing unfairness in our system.

The unfairness of the intergenerational scam, the bias in our tax system against young people.

The bias against wage-earners and the bias against Australians living on a fixed income.

Since the Global Financial Crisis, people who make their money from capital, from multiple investment properties, from big share portfolios, they’ve done OK.

And what’s more there’s a whole menu of loopholes they can use to minimise their tax, or opt out of paying it altogether.

But because of stagnant wages, because of rising living costs, the vast majority of Australians, the people who rely on their pay packet or a fixed income like the pension, their share of our national wealth has declined proportionately.

The power of ordinary people’s income has slipped backwards and those Australians don’t have the luxury of a whole lot of deductions and perks and clever accounting at their disposal.

This imbalance, this unfairness, this shifting of the burden onto millions of middle class wage-earners is why we as an Opposition have made the decision to offer something better, something different to the stagnant, arrogant, smug, business as usual standstill policies of this threadbare government.

We are closing the loopholes, we’re ending the unsustainable tax giveaways not just to make the system fairer or more efficient, but because government is about choices, and we choose to fund the investments which will make our economy stronger, make our country better.

And for any Labor Government, building a fairer and building a stronger economy, investing in a more prosperous and more equal society will always begin with education.

That’s why if we win this election we are going to make sure that every three-year-old and every four-year-old in Australia can go to preschool or kindergarten.

It’s another ripper of an idea, 15 hours of free early learning a week, 40 weeks a year. Every expert tells us that 90 per cent of a child’s brain develops by the time they are five. Any parent can tell you the same. We know at that age our kids are learning and changing every day in front of our eyes.

And education is a bit like the miracle of compound interest. The earlier you invest the greater the return, throughout the child and adult’s life.

The results are in. They show that children who do two years of pre-school are still benefiting when they’re in secondary school. And why wouldn’t we want to give our kids the best head start in life.

It’s why all of the countries at the top of the global education ladder have this as a standard.

Two years of pre-school is the world’s best practice.

And when it comes to education, the world’s best is only just good enough for Australia.

But friends if we want a world-class early education system, then we need to encourage the best early educators.

Early educators are amongst the very first people, the very first adults to whom we entrust our precious children outside our own family.

We expect them to keep our children happy and safe. To teach our children about everything from pre-numeracy and pre-literacy, to learning together and taking turns.

This is why we are allocating 10,000 of our free TAFE places to the early educators of the future.

It is why we’re uncapping university places, so more people from the regions and the outer suburbs have the chance to study teaching.

And it’s why when last in government we introduced a National Quality Framework, to lift standards across the country.

But the fact is that while the expectations, the demands, the qualifications required of our early-years educators have gone up – their wages have not kept pace.

Teaching our children in the early years is one of the most important jobs there is. And yet in our country it is one of the lowest paid jobs in the country.

And - like it or not - that sends a message. It speaks volumes for what we value as a nation, for the priority that we place on the betterment of our children and the respect we display to the people who teach them.

So as the leader of a party that believes in the inalienable right of every Australian child to have a great education, a party that champions teachers and educators at every level, I am really proud today to announce that if we win the next election, Labor will deliver a professional pay rise directly to the early educators of Australia over the next eight years.

Friends it gets even better. Over the next eight years we will increase the average wage of our underpaid early educators by around $11,300 on top of any increase in the award rate.

A 20 per cent pay rise for the early educators because we value early education.

And our plan will ensure that the money goes into the pockets of these workers, without increasing fees for parents.

We’re going to make it easier to attract more dedicated and passionate people into the profession.

And we’re going to make it easier to keep the great passionate and dedicated early educators on the frontline, where they are making the biggest difference.

This is an investment in quality early education, for good jobs and a strong economy of the future.

And this is an investment in pay equity for a female-dominated industry. A fair reward for a workforce that has about 96 per cent women, has been undervalued and underpaid for too long and that stops on May the 19th.

But there is more that we will do for the working families of Australia.

I know wherever I go in Australia one of the biggest hits to the family budget is the growing and growing and growing cost of long day child care.

I understand that one of the great unfairnesses, the injustices, the frustrations endured by households where both parents work is that when you sit down and crunch the numbers on the family budget, fortnight to fortnight, you come to the shocking realisation that the cost of child care can practically consume one entire salary – just swallow it whole.

And because women are more likely to be the ones who takes time out of work to start and raise a family, it is frequently women who are put in a position where when they return to their job, they’re basically working for nothing.

Australia cannot be the modern, fair and productive economy that we need to be in the 2020s if Australian women are caught in this absurd Catch 22.

You understand it, it’s where you have to go to work, to earn the money, to pay for the child care, which enables you go to work.

It’s time that we rewarded mums for participating in the economy, instead of penalising families.

It’s time for a better deal for the working families of Australia.

And it’s time for a government that’s serious about helping with the cost of living.

So today, I am proud to announce the most family-friendly policy of this campaign – and the biggest saving for family budgets in a generation – Labor’s $4 billion plan for cheaper child care for a million Australian families.

From July next year we will put more money back in the pockets of nearly a million Australian working families.

This will save people up to $2,100 per child, per year.

Under our plan, no family will be worse off. We won’t be robbing one family’s childcare to pay for another family’s childcare.

And every family in Australia with a combined household income of up to $174,000 will be hundreds, if not thousands of dollars better off.

For example, if you’re one of the 367,000 Australian families with a household income of under $68,000, for you and your children, child care will be as good as free.

Families with children under 12 will also be big winners.

Because our plan will also save you money; the cost of before-school care, or after-school care or attending holiday programs.

And let me be clear to the families of Australia saying ‘how does this affect us and what is the difference between voting for Labor and voting for the current government?’

The current government, the Liberals and the Nationals cannot do what we have just promised. They cannot help families with the cost of living because they have chosen to lock themselves in to defending unsustainable tax loopholes for the top end of town.

A very big difference.

A Labor Government will boost pay for early educators.

We will help working families cover the cost of childcare.

And let me put the big for-profit child care providers on notice. We will not allow either of these great initiatives to be used as an excuse for you to simply raise your fees, fatten your profits and no change to the cost of living or the wages.

From day one we shall give the ACCC the power to crack down on any excessive fee increases from unscrupulous providers.

Centres and companies that do the wrong, opportunistic thing, thinking that because parents have some more money or the employees can get some more wages and they simply jack up the prices to minimise the benefit for the people, these centres and companies that do this will be named and shamed on childcarefinder.gov.au

And to be perfectly clear - just as we have already shown with another big cost of living pressure - private health insurance premiums - if we see child care companies unfairly raising prices, we will use the power of the Parliament to freeze fee increases and enact price control.

Because Labor is not afraid of the top end of town, because a Labor Government will always put family budgets ahead of excessive corporate profits every time.

Friends, in 1972 and 1983 and 2007, when people voted out tired, moribund, divided, ineffectual, conservative governments, when people voted for new Labor Governments they were voting for a genuine change of direction for Australia.

And this is what our Labor team offers at this election in 2019.

We offer not just an end to the dysfunction, to the chaos, to the dismal, timid, confusion of the Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison years. But we offer a new way forward for Australia - more hopeful, more decent, more equal, with greater access and equity and opportunity for all Australians.

Throughout these years in opposition, all of us in the Labor Party and the labour movement, we’ve built our unity of purpose. We have done the hard yards of policy.

Now friends it is time to draw the threads of the story together, to explain to the Australian people the vision we offer:

For good jobs and fair wages
For world-class Medicare
For the best in education, skills, training and TAFE
For infrastructure that connects our nation
For an National Disability Insurance Scheme that delivers for the people who need it.
Friends it is time for us to draw the threads of our story together:

To end the intergenerational unfairness in our tax system
To give a better deal for our pensioners
For real help with cost of living
And for real action on climate change.
And this friends, is where all of you come in, our volunteers here today and watching and listening to this all over Australia.

It is your skills at organising and mobilising - but much more important even than that work – it is your passion, it is your idealism, it is your determination, it is your enthusiasm, it is your belief that this country is ready for change.

It is your capacity to put the frame around the big picture that we present, to explain to people where they fit in in our vision for them.

It is your ability to communicate with young Australians, above all - the generation voting in their first or second election.

Because I fundamentally believe that when Labor makes the case for the future, when we ask people to choose hope over fear, vision over cynicism, the high road over the lowest common denominator – when we put forward the bold plans, the big ideas, when we make the argument for change, we win.

And when you're out knocking on the doors, when you're making the telephone calls, when you're handing out at the railway station you have the winning arguments on the big issues.

Labor has given the winning arguments for you to put forward in the story as we put the frame around the picture.

Just think about it

We win on climate change.

We win on intergenerational fairness.

We win on equality for women.

We win on education and training and apprenticeships and TAFE.

We win on jobs and wages.

We win on Medicare and better cancer treatment and new dental for pensioners.

We win on child care and we win on the cost of living for working families.

Friends, if we make this election about our competing plans for the future then truly, no turgid scare campaign from the smouldering wreck of the modern Liberal Party can stop us.

No fake news or lies on social media, no poisonous slogans from the advertising agency masquerading as the Liberal government will deter us from making the case.

We have a great team and we are united in our determination to do great things for Australia, to genuinely change Australia for the better.

The people of Australia want a vision. The people of Australia want their hope renewed. The people of Australia do not want cynicism, they want to believe the politics serves the people and not the other way round.

But everything we want to accomplish in our first 100 days, in our first three years, all that we can hope to deliver for the millions of middle and working class Australians, and pensioners and people on the land, and in small business, in the big cities and in the bush – all of the people who depend and want hope, and hope that a Labor Party can deliver it, all of this now depends upon the next 20 days.

Tomorrow morning, the pre-polls open.

And until they close on 6.00pm on May the 18th, we need every one of you to do everything you can to advocate for our vision for a new Labor Government.

So let’s get out there, let’s make every minute count.

Let’s restore the fair go to this country and give it new meaning.

Let’s go win this election.

Thank you, Tanya.

I want to thank you for your friendship, your advice, your support for the past six years.

And on behalf of our movement I’d like to thank you for your leadership, everything you have done to bring together the best women’s policy program that any political party has ever taken to the people of Australia. Thank you very much Tanya.

And because of Tanya, because of remarkable women like our Shadow Ministers; Jenny McAllister, Linda Burney and Amanda Rishworth – and, of course, the one and the only Penny Wong.

Because of great members of Parliament like Lisa Chesters and Ged Kearney and Jo Ryan, Kimberley Kitching and many more.

And because of outstanding candidates like Jana Stewart who we just heard from, and Fiona McLeod running in the marginal seat of Higgins. Peta Murphy, Shireen Morris, Kate Thwaites, Jennifer Yang and so many more who are here…

Because of all of you, if we win the election on May the 18th, we will be the first government in the history of the Commonwealth with 50 per cent women in our ranks. Well done.

I too acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet. I pay my respects to elders, past, present and emerging.

And friends, I promise that if we win the election, these words of respect will be marked by action.

Action on Closing the Gap.

Action on truth-telling and treaties.

And action on a Voice for our First Australians, enshrined in the nation’s birth certificate, the Australian Constitution.

This is why Labor seeks to form Government, it is why I want to be Prime Minister: to turn words into action.

It’s what motivates every member and every candidate of our stable and united and talented team.

It’s why this election is so terribly important to our future. To the future of the country; it is a chance to give that great, glorious old idea of a fair go, to give it new life and new meaning for more Australians.

Transforming education, with universal pre-school for every three-year-old and four-year-old.
It will be the biggest expansion of Medicare in a generation, to practically eliminate the costs of fighting cancer.
It will be embracing renewable energy, ending the toxic paralysis of the climate change wars, taking real action on climate change – not just passing the problem on to our children and our grandchildren.
And contrast all of that, all of what we want to achieve, the plan for the future that we offer the people of Australia, contrast that with the smallness, the meanness, the narrowness of what our opponents offer.

After six years, three Prime Ministers, no vision, no plan, no ambition - nothing good to say about anything, nothing but a long, dishonest, list of things that they want to make you afraid of. How did we come to a state in Australian politics where the government of the day says we have nothing new to offer you but we want you to be afraid.

Afraid of change. Afraid of reform. Afraid of the future.

Afraid of the march of women towards equality.

Afraid of every new idea, of every big challenge.

For every new idea, for every new challenge, their answer is no.

They can find an excuse to do nothing every time.

They say that our country cannot afford the best possible health system.

They say that we can’t afford to rebuild TAFE or properly fund public schools.

They say that we can’t afford a manufacturing industry; they say we can’t afford fair pay or a living wage.

They say that Australia cannot afford to take real action on climate change.

But please know this. Every time you hear the Liberals say that our country can’t afford it, what they’re actually really saying is they think our people don’t deserve it.

I’m proud we take a different view.

I’m proud that we have a vision that seeks to write Australia large.

I’m proud that in the Labor Party we want the very best for the Australian people.

I’m proud of the fact that we are launching our women’s policy and it is entitled ‘All About Equality’. I am very proud that at the heart of our plan for a fair go for all Australians … is our determination to achieve equality for the women of Australia.

A fair go means equality in pay, a fair go means equality in opportunity, a fair go means equality in leadership, a fair go means freedom from violence.

Friends, when I became Labor leader back in 2013, I said that I wanted to make preventing and eliminating family violence a national priority.

I said that we needed to deal with the hard issues as a Labor Party, not just the easy issues. And there has been no issue treated any more as difficult as violence against women. Now I said this in 2013 for a whole lot of reasons - from the courage and remarkable inspiration of courageous Australians like Rosie Batty.

I said it when I witnessed the ground-breaking Royal Commission initiated by Dan Andrews and the late Fiona Richardson in the Victorian Labor Government. I actually think from when we spoke about it then, our country has actually come a fair way on this issue.

There is a sea-change in the attitude of Australians, at least in part.
We don’t turn a blind eye anymore.

We no longer metaphorically and literally pull down the blinds and turn up the television to drown out the noise next door.

We talk more openly about respect and changing attitudes.

But the uncomfortable truth, the hard truth is that whilst our willingness to talk about family violence has changed, the number of deaths has not.

And to be really blunt and direct - in a crisis, words do not put a roof over your head.

Words don’t help kids coming home at night checking if their mother has turned on the light on the porch or not as a quiet sign to say whether the dad is in a good mood or an angry mood.

Words don’t help kids in the morning and their mothers wondering where would they go? How much longer can they take it?

Words don’t help children at night or their mother trying to negotiate the unpredictable moods of an angry man. Is he drunk happy or is he drunk angry? Will he fall asleep at the table? Can I turn my music on in my room? Will it cause a fight? Does my mother have to physically and literally protect me from the mood of the angry man? Words are not enough.

Words don’t pay the bills if your partner has closed your accounts, frozen the credit card.

Words don’t really help, do they, when you have to negotiate the minefield of the courts.

If you’re caught up in this frightening, dangerous ordeal of family violence – what you need is practical help, you need real money, concrete support.

That is why today, we are announcing a $660 million commitment to prevent family violence, to fund frontline services and to help rescue survivors and their children.

We can find a way in this county to pay for these things; we should be a country that can provide flexible financial support packages, of up to $10,000. It should be there to help with rent on a new place, to change the locks, or just paying the bills.

You shouldn’t have to draw down on your superannuation, should you? Or take out a loan just to get you through a crisis.

And I acknowledge the work of the Australian union movement in influencing us to put 10 days paid leave into the National Domestic Leave policy and the National Employment Standards – 10 days, as if people go through family violence to get a day’s paid leave.

It’s just about helping you pick up the pieces, without worrying about losing your job.

There is no way a survivor can negotiate finding the new tenancy, inspecting the house, doing the paper work, making sure the kids are okay at school, talking to the teachers, keeping an eye out for an angry and vengeful ex-partner, and not have a little bit of paid leave.

And today I can announce that a Labor Government will double the funding for emergency accommodation and women’s refuges in our Fourth Action Plan – double the funding.

Actually when you look at what this government spends money on, the fact that we can just say it’s an additional $60 million over the next four years to ensure women and children fleeing violent partners can find a safe place to stay – it’s actually not that much, but it is a recognition that too often, when the very worst happens, when the end event of a chain of violence and abuse – we still hear people say: “Why didn’t she leave?”

When the real question we should have asked is: “Where could she have gone?”

A Labor Government will answer that question. We’re going to put in the money to expand existing safe accommodation; we’re going to build new centres right across Australia, city and country.

We willl work with the states to ensure crisis accommodation is accessible for people with disability – and it’s got to include facilities for the kids too.

Now friends, anyone who’s been to a Community Legal Centre – we know these places are full of remarkable people who do vital work on a shoestring budget. They don’t get paid what their contemporaries from university who went into the commercial firms get paid, but what they give in terms of intellect and emotional energy is second to none. And when you look at what these community legal centres do, particularly when it comes to helping women seeking legal protection from violent partners.

What an isolating experience it is for a woman to come out of a relationship to be stalked by the ex-partner. It is so tiring; from the tracking on mobile phones, to the unexpected visits, to the so-called chance bumping into in a corridor in a supermarket. What these women need is help.

And of course, no matter how dedicated the staff, no matter how passionate the law students are and the volunteers, we know that the help required on the existing resources means there are simply not enough hours in the day or dollars in the bank of the legal centre. It means that Australians, people, women are turned away and vulnerable women are left to navigate a confusing and intimidating and expensive legal maze all on their own.

That is why if we are elected, Labor will invest another $42.5 million into Australia’s Community Legal Centres.

And we will provide another $21.5 million to help Prevention Legal Services expand into growing suburbs, country towns and remote communities.

I have a very simple view of Australia, your post-code should not determine your access to justice or indeed, no matter where you live in Australia, if you are a woman dealing with family violence you have the same right to good advice, to quality representation and to justice in the courts.

Now I’ve spent most of this week in northern Queensland talking about our plans to get wages moving again in this country.

You know, everything is going up in Australia except your wages. But I don’t need to tell Australian women this.

When you think about it, in a lot of ways, Australia’s oldest political promise, Labor’s oldest promise, our founding principle is a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay.

But in 2019 too many women are being excluded from this promise.

Not only because Liberal cuts to Sunday and public holiday penalty rates disproportionately affect women.

Not just because the Liberals’ much-vaunted tax plan does nothing to help millions of women working part-time.

But because women earn less than men and retire with less than men.

Because feminised industries have historically been undervalued and underpaid compared to traditionally male-dominated industries.

And because too many working women are seeing their entire salary eaten-away by the rising cost of child care.

Yet the only thing that the Liberals and Nationals have done to narrow the gap in pay between men and women in the last six years, is just suppress the wages of all working people.

The Liberals are not helping working women earn more or save more - they’re just making sure that men are paid less.

After six years of conservative economics calling the shots in Australia its plain enough:

Equality does not trickle down.

It is plain enough that the free market and the invisible hand aren’t doing a good enough job.

That wage stagnation is not a plan for equal pay.

And the Liberals and Nationals after six years have demonstrated beyond all reasonable doubt, they are simply not interested in fixing it or capable of changing it.

The current Prime Minister says that he doesn’t mind women succeeding, so long as it’s not ‘at the expense of the others’.

Now unless he’s talking about zebras, he means men. We have in 2019 a prime minister, who thinks that equality is a question of special treatment.

The current Minister for Women said that the Liberals are seen as ‘anti-women’.

And the government’s first Minister for Women was Tony Abbott.
So when it comes to fair pay and conditions, it is only a Labor Government that will strive for the equality that women deserve.

We said that we will deliver a $400 million boost to the superannuation account balances of women and low-income earners - because women should not be penalised for taking time out of the workforce to start and raise a family.

And in the very near future, we’ll be announcing new plans to cut the cost of long day child care - and we will announce in the very near future, a new national push for pay equity, starting with early childhood educators.

And for the first time, we are going to require that big businesses publicly report the gender pay gap in their companies.

We are going to ban pay secrecy clauses.

At the moment, the financial services sector is one of the biggest users of pay secrecy clauses in contracts.

It is arguably, therefore, no coincidence that they have the biggest gender pay gap – almost 30 per cent.

Under a Labor Government, if your company is not trying to close the gender pay gap – you won’t be able to cover it up any longer.
And we’re going to set the standard too, as a government.

In our very first year, every department, every agency will be required to do an audit to find out what their pay gap is and what’s causing it.

And we are also going to restore pay equity as a principle of Australian Public Service bargaining.

We’re going to adopt a simple principle for government departments: “If not, why not?”.

If you’re not paying men and women equally – from now on you’re going to have to explain why not. If not, why not.

And what’s more, we’ll require departments to demonstrate that they have a pan to fix it.

And – friends – the same will go for companies seeking government contracts.

If you want to bid for Commonwealth dollars – whether that’s in infrastructure or procurement or technology or services – you will have to report on the gender pay gap and you’ll have to show what you’re doing to close it.

Because companies that are doing the wrong thing should not get a competitive advantage, or a single taxpayer dollar.

Friends, a few weeks ago, I was campaigning in Corangamite with the remarkable Libby Coker.

And we met a dairy farmer; he’s a man in his late 60s. It was on the Bellarine Peninsula, and I just asked out of curiosity, as one does to dairy farmers. I said, did you go to Queenscliff Secondary School? There’s a reason. I don’t always ask dairy farmers that.

Cause he was of an age and he gave this answer and I said, was his teacher Ann McGrath, and he said it was. That was my mother’s name, Ann McGrath.

And you know, when your parent has passed and you sort of wish you could replay the conversations, and you sort of kick yourself for not having had more conversations, you don’t realise until too late that time isn’t always there to have those dialogues. So periodically though you get lucky and you meet someone who knew your parent and is almost like a voice, from your parent to you via this interlocutor. And he got quite interested, and he said, “We used to call her: “Annie Get Your Gun.” I know my grandfather used to shoot rabbits but…

I said why was that? And he said my mother was a great friend of his mother, and he described his own mother and my mother who would have been in her early twenties when she was teaching him – mid-twenties. He said, “They were feminists before people knew what feminists were.”

And it is funny, how a chance reflection from a stranger can make you think.

My mother was a brilliant woman.

She won a teaching scholarship; Catholic family, first to go to university, they weren’t rich. She had to take the teacher’s scholarship to look after the other siblings.

Don’t get me wrong, she loved being a teacher and she was very good at it. But she always wanted to be in the law.

Later in life, when my twin brother and I went to university, she was enrolled at the same faculty; she distinguished herself and got the Supreme Court prize. I did not. That part was superfluous, I guess.

But what is interesting and when I work with such talented women every day as I do, when I’ve got the remarkable Chloe at my side.
I realise that she was never bitter about what had happened to her, but she always felt that because of her family’s financial circumstances, because of the era she grew up in and because she was a woman, it was never assumed that she should have the same opportunity to fulfil her potential, to decide her own future. That if she had been the eldest son, with the best will in the world to my grandparents, if she’d been the eldest son, I suspect that she wouldn’t have had to take the teacher’s scholarship.

But this is it: she was never bitter about the lack of opportunity and I can’t fix that now. But the reason why I’m so pleased to be part of this launch and part of this movement is I can’t make it better for her, and she wouldn’t ask me to, but I can make it better for my own daughters, I can make it better for every Australian woman going forward.

Because when we as a country, put restrictions upon our people’s potential, we are all diminished.

If we deny people opportunities because of where they live, or what their parents earn, or because of their skin colour or how many generations they’ve been here, or because of their gender … then our whole country misses out.

We’re here launching a plan for equality but equality is not about lifting someone up and forcing someone else down as the government would have you. Equality is recognition that in the race of life, we don’t all start at the same point. That because of various discriminations and reasons, your gender, your colour, your faith, your location, your wealth, you get put further back from the starting line. Equality for me is just giving everyone the same opportunity.

We must repudiate in this election the proposition that the government advances that Labor wants some to go up but by pushing others down. That’s not right. What I want is I want everyone to have the same starting line. I don’t want to see people wasted.

If we strive to ensure that every Australian – young and old, every Australian – city and bush, women and men – can get equal opportunity, then nothing holds our country back.

If we can achieve equality for women in Australia, real equality for women, then we will be the fairest and the richest nation in the world.

Friends;

I said at the beginning our mission is all about turning words into actions.

When it comes to a fair go for women – we have our words right here.

We have a positive vision for the future.

We don’t spend our whole time sledging the government.
We don’t seek office merely on the argument ‘we are not them’.

We seek office because we have a view, a positive vision of the nation.

We’ve made long-term reform decisions to pay for our plan.

There’s one more step though we need to take.

We need to get out there and win the election.

Let us turn our words into actions.

It is my sincere hope that all things being equal if we win an election, Pat Dodson will be a Minister in a Labor government. What we will have ideally, and as plenty of you know, water to go under the bridge, but in an ideal world for the first time ever in the history of this country we will have a First Australian in charge of Indigenous Affairs in Canberra. Of course we've got to win the election to do that.

What I wanted to do is just briefly other than make my acknowledgements and thank you for having me here was just say to you there'll be an election on the May the 18th. Voting will open before then. And perhaps politics in Australia is a reason for some cynicism. You hear the promises, some things get better, but other things don’t. It takes a very long time to get the basics right. I want to make clear to you. your vote is powerful. Everyone of you - your vote is powerful. This country is at a turning point. One path for this nation is that we go down the road of looking after the very powerful, the very wealthy, looking after the lucky few and then on that path they sort of hope that crumbs will drop from the table and look after everyone else.

There is another path for this nation. It is called fairness. It is called the equal go. What you vote here on Bathurst Island won’t decide the nation but you are part of something bigger and you are powerful. We are very committed to greater local control over decision making when it comes to an examination of the history of our relationship between First Australians and governments we have tried all the other paths. We've tried paternalism, we've tried top down, we've tried taking away children from family, we've tried ignoring culture, we tried denying the land rights, we tried denying that First Australians do not get an equal go. Well we want to try something different if we get elected. We want to try bottom up control we want to try the idea of Aboriginal Controlled Organisations making decisions.

Now I come here and I am going to encourage all my fellow Australians at some point to visit here. What I see is community health doing the very best it can. I see strong women and strong men making decisions. I see children who if given the same opportunities as other children can do anything. They can live on country, or indeed they can pursue other dreams and hopes.

We in Labor want to work with you. We respect 60,000 years of continuous culture. I respect the strength of our First Australians. I respect the compassion of our First Australians to those who have come afterwards. Tiwi Islands, a famous football powerhouse, 900 out of 2600 play football. That makes this ground zero for AFL in Australia. And the point about it is the famous names you have contributed to the AFL from Rioli to Ronnie Burns to Tipungwuti and many more. What that tells me is when we give our First Australians an equal opportunity people, people do really well with it. Imagine AFL without Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. It just wouldn't be as fast, it wouldn't be as skilled, it wouldn't be as entertaining.

So the vision I have if I become Prime Minister is to recognise that when you give people equal opportunity, when you have a teacher in the homeland school all year round, when you've got the proper roads funding, when you've got the health funding and we tackle the rheumatic heart disease, when we provide teams to help in mental health, when we do the eye surgery, when we just give an equal start then you will do the rest. But to get that equal start requires change in Canberra.

At this upcoming election, Labor’s message to the people of Australia is very straightforward: you deserve better than you’ve been getting from the government in the last six years.

You deserve better than cuts to schools and hospitals.

You deserve better than ever-rising energy bills and increasing child care costs.

You deserve better than insecure work and stagnant wages growth.

You deserve better than a tax system which deepens inequality and entrenches intergenerational unfairness against Australian young people.

You deserve better than delay and division and dysfunction and denial on climate change.

You deserve better than a government that’s afraid of the future, obsessed and consumed with itself.

I say to the Australian people:
You deserve better than the last six years, Australia deserves better than the last six years, the next generation deserves better than the last six years.

And after six years of cuts, chaos, of division – friends, it is time for change.

It is time, friends, for a stable, united Labor Government.

And I have to say that when I call my team a stable and united political organisation, I am so pleased to have so many of them here today – I have got the best team running in this election without doubt.

You know, and we’ve seen over the last six years that they are an outstanding group of passionate and idealistic men and women – they’re talented, they’re diverse, they’re clever and they’re hard-working and they are committed every morning to every night to making their communities and our country a better place.

And nearly six years ago now, all of us in Labor, the parliamentary party, the rank and file members the unions, we made a choice as a movement.

We decided to rip-up the rulebook of Opposition.

We decided we wouldn’t just sit back and wait for the other side to trip over their own shoelaces – we couldn’t have imagined some of the mistakes they’ve made in fact – we decided instead that Australian politics has to be a better destination. It should be a contest of ideas. We decided we  would set the pace, we would make the running, we would put forward our vision for the future.

Because – unlike our opponents – we do not seek government for the titles and the trappings, for the chance to do special favours to powerful mates.

Labor seeks government to do the big things, to manage the big changes, to build for the future, to be ambitious for Australia, to write Australia large.

In our movement we believe in striving for the best – because we believe the Australian people deserve the best.

We are a big thinking party, with big ideas and we believe that Australia should have the best.

The best in education and training and apprenticeships and universities.

We believe that we should be the best we can be in good jobs and fair wages.

The best in clean energy technology and advanced manufacturing.
The best in infrastructure – from our cities, to our suburbs, to our regions.

We should be the best we can be in achieving equality for women – in pay, in leadership, in freedom from family violence.

We believe Australia should be the best in aged care, helping look after people living with dementia.

We believe we should provide the best support for people with disability and their carers.

And we believe in the best healthcare and the best hospitals in the world.

And that really is the fundamental choice at this election: better hospitals for Australians or bigger tax loopholes for the top end of town. And I submit the answer is clear.

If we are elected the next government of Australia, we will put back every single dollar that the Liberals have cut from public hospitals.

Labor’s plan for better hospitals spans out across the nation – but I’m pleased to say, that our plan starts right down the road from here.

Today I’m proud to announce that if we win the next election, a new Labor Government will put in 50 million dollars to kick-start phase two of the redevelopment of Concord Hospital.

As Sam Crosby – our tireless candidate for Reid, and the candidate who’s been in the competition for Reid the longest – keeps telling me, the main building at Concord was completed back in 1941, it’s in desperate need of renovation.

And across the nation, run-down facilities make life harder for our amazing nurses, orderlies, doctors and they make things worse for patients.

Now you don’t need to be a brain surgeon to know this….

…however it just so happens that our candidate in Bennelong is a brain surgeon.

And Brian Owler is right behind this project because he knows that improving Concord Hospital will help patients all through the Inner West.

And this is what Labor’s $2.8 billion Better Hospitals Fund will mean for communities right around Australia. It’ll mean more beds, more staff, more equipment, shorter waiting times, better care.

This is what Labor does best – prioritise the health of Australians.
And friends 10 days ago, in my Budget Reply Speech, I announced the most significant expansion of Medicare since Labor created it.

A vote for Labor on May the 18th will see a $2.3 billion investment to virtually eliminate out-of-pocket costs for our fellow Australians battling cancer.

Australians are currently, when they’re in the fight of their lives, are paying too much against cancer for their medical costs.

There are hundreds of thousands of our fellow Australians, perhaps some even in this room – who are living with cancer, and their families too. Our plan will take the cost of treatment from thousands of dollars down to nearly nothing.

Let me share with you what this difference means in the real world.

On Monday in Brisbane, Catherine King, myself, and Kristina Keneally visited the Royal Brisbane Hospital. We were in the day oncology ward at the RBH. I met an amazing woman. Her name was Elaine. She’s warm, friendly. An aura – a great sense of humour, you sort of wanted to pick her up and make her your neighbour at home, she’s just a standout human being.

Elaine was diagnosed with cancer in 2011.

She’s strong, she’s tried it all, been right through the system, the therapies, the treatments, when the drugs weren’t available on the PBS they would do the clinical trials to access them.

So far, it hasn’t worked.

She told me that, as she held my hand in the ward, she’s got one last roll of the dice, it’s a new trial, a new drug. She looked me in the face, said there’s perhaps a 10 per cent chance. She wouldn’t want me talking about that, what she said to me rocked me.

She said could I help her talk to her superannuation fund, so she could withdraw her life savings to pay some of the out-of-pocket bills.

Because this amazing woman, and there are hundreds of thousands of stories like her, her biggest worry wasn’t herself. It’s not the disease which is killing her, she was anxious about leaving a big debt for her family after she was gone.

Now we have sorted it out. And I want to thank industry fund Host Plus for moving as well as they did on it.

But is that who this country is? Do we have to, when you’ve got cancer, do you have to rely upon chance encounters, so that you can empty your retirement savings to pay for your treatment?
More to the point, should you have to dip into your super in the fight of your life, refinance your home in the fight of your life, or sell your home? Or do you just lie awake with the pain of cancer and the anxiety of debt?

Cancer makes you sick, but it should not make you poor, and that is what Labor is going to change.

Cancer is scary. One in two Australians will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime.

One in two – if that is not you, it is someone you love.

If we are elected as the next government of Australia on May the 18th, we give this promise to everyone caught up in the battle against cancer:

Your tests and scans and ultrasounds and MRIs – will be covered by Medicare/.
Your appointments with specialists, and oncologists, your chemo, your radiation therapy – will be covered by Medicare.
And the cancer medication that you need – will be funded by the PBS.
My view is simple and Labor’s promise is straightforward.

If you are in the fight of your life, if someone you love is in the fight of their life, it should not matter whether you live in the city or the bush.

It should not matter your postcode or your personal wealth.

Under Labor, there is only one thing that matters, there is only one thing you will need: your Medicare card.

Now there was a lot wrong with the government’s Budget a couple of weeks ago, but, there always is.

But this year one thing in particular stood out. This government shouldn’t surprise me, but they even managed to surprise me with new thinking of practicing meanness at a legislative level.

Short-changing the National Disability Insurance Scheme to prop-up a flimsy surplus forecast.

Even I didn’t think they could think of that.

I mean, you’ve got to hand it to them, the Liberals and the Nationals have created bottlenecks in the NDIS, they’ve delayed the funding agreements with the states to roll out the National Disability Insurance Scheme, they’ve prevented vital support getting to the people who need it most. They’ve done these things.

And then, having congested the flow of valuable and legitimate resources to people who deserve it, having created failure in the system, they then bank the failure and neglect as Budget success.

For many of our fellow Australians, the $1.6 billion underspend in the NDIS is not just a figure in the budget tables. What it means is that 77,000 people living with disabilities, severe and profound disability, and their families, are going without the support they are entitled to.

Many of the people who have access to their NDIS plan are – on average – using only 50 per cent of it, not because there is an underdemand for the services as the government would have you believe, but because the services aren’t there to support them and are taking too long to be processed to get to the people who deserve them.

Friends, the National Disability Insurance Scheme is too big, it’s too important to be hostage to dodgy government accounting.

All of us know someone waiting for the National Disability Insurance Scheme to live up to its promise.

And, friends, I can promise that a Labor Government will make it our mission to get the NDIS back on track, as it should be.

Now we’ll start getting it back on track by removing the staffing cap on the National Disability Insurance Agency, having more people there to help, with more resources going to where they’re needed.

In addition, we’re going to pay the upfront fees for 20,000 TAFE places to people who want to train as the carers of the future.

And today I can announce that we will invest a further $40 million into new training programs for carers; scholarships and support and skills that people can draw upon wherever they are in Australia.

Because not only do we owe a lot of gratitude to our carers, but we’re going to need more carers to deliver the NDIS, and we want those carers to be well-trained and well-paid delivering the best possible support for our fellow Australians living with disability.

Friends:

Better hospitals
Stronger Medicare
The NDIS back on track
This is at the heart of Labor’s vision for the future of a Fair Go Australia.

And friends, I have the Labor team here who’s going to deliver it. Let’s give them a round of applause.

And because we’ve been upfront, because we respect the Australian people and we trust them to put forward our ideas, because in no small part, the economic team lead by Chris Bowen and Jim Chalmers and my shadow cabinet, we’ve made genuine long term reform decisions. We have a plan to pay for our priorities, to pay for the choices.

We’re going to make multinationals pay their fair share of tax in Australia.

And we are going to end the intergenerational bias in our tax system, reforming the subsidies that advantage property investors over our young, first-home buyers.

And we are going to close the unfair, unsustainable loopholes used by the top end of town.

And I have to say this: if you are getting a tax credit when you haven’t paid any income tax, this is a gift.

It is a gift, it is not immoral, nor is it illegal.

But it is a gift, and it is a gift lifted from the taxes paid by working class and middle class people in Australia today.

It is a gift that is eating our budget.

It’s now costing our nation over $6 billion this year, and pretty soon will cost $8 billion.

And if all of this talk of billions is too much, perhaps think of it in the following way:

Two minutes’ worth of the gift, the money that flows out of this one loophole, two minutes out of 365 days, could pay for someone’s knee replacement surgery.

Ten minutes worth of the gift is enough to employ a nurse, full-time, for a year.

In one hour, this loophole alone could pay for a hospital bed, for a whole year.

This is the difference that we’re talking about.

It is a fundamental choice in this election:

Better hospitals for all Australians, or bigger tax loopholes. Better hospitals, or bigger tax loopholes.

Friends, if we win the election, we will invest more in our public hospitals. We will invest more in our GPs, we will invest more in preventative health.

And it is clear now, that if the Liberals win the election, they will cut hospitals again.

When the current Prime Minister was Treasurer, he cut $715 million from hospitals.

And the new figures reported today reveal that if the Liberals and Nationals win the election, they will cut another $2.8 billion from our public hospitals.

After six years of cuts to health, the Medicare patient freeze, the cutbacks and the increased out of pockets to see the doctor, after six years of cuts, they’re getting ready to do it all again.
And ripping $2.8 billion from our public hospitals.

This is the equivalent of;
sacking 1,900 doctors a year, for the next six years.
Or 3900 nurses.
Or closing-off nearly 700 beds.
Think about the difference that this will make.

Think about the strains these cuts will put on Nepean Hospital or Yass.

Think about the damage it will do to the Emergency Departments at Bateman’s Bay and Bankstown.

Think about the added pressure and stress and demand that these Liberal National cuts will put on your healthcare workers, from Wyong to Lismore.

And perhaps most importantly think about what these cuts will mean for people who are already living in pain daily, waiting too long to have their knees fixed up, or too long to have their hip replaced, or too long to have their cataracts removed.

It is true that our country, our precious country can’t afford to waste another three years living under conservative turmoil, conservative division and conservative infighting.

But it is equally just as important – to say that our nation cannot afford another three years of Liberal-National cuts to our precious Australian health system.

Now, the good news is that this time, unlike Tony Abbott’s cuts to hospitals, unlike the $715 million the current fellow cut from hospitals when he was the Treasurer, this time the decision is in your hands.

And that’s the message all of you, our mighty volunteers, can carry with you in your conversations with the Australian people.

Every one of you can make this message clear.

That the one thing that every Australian can do to keep Medicare strong is vote for a Labor government on May 18th.

You can carry this message in conversations with the Australian people and you can tell them that there is one thing that every Australian can do to get the National Disability Insurance Scheme back on track – it is vote for a Labor government on May 18th.

You can go from here and tell the Australian people that there is one thing that every Australian can do to stop the cuts to our public hospitals - vote for a Labor government on May 18th.

So friends, that’s what we’ve focused on in the first week of this campaign.

Medicare
Public Hospitals
The National Disability Insurance Scheme
But what, by the way, have our opponents spent their week talking about?

It’s not the country. It’s not ideas. It’s not a new policy or plan.

They spent their week talking about us.

They talk about Labor and they talk about the past, because they have nothing good to say about themselves and nothing positive to say about the future of the Australian people.

Now, I know that the current Prime Minister keeps trying to say the election is about him and me.

But he’s just plain wrong actually.

This election is not about two politicians, it’s about the people of Australia.

Now I suspect, over the next 34 days, we will hear a little more shouty nonsense. Perhaps a little bit of trademark truculence from the current fellow.

We’ll hear more dodgy numbers from the Treasurer.

And more low-rent personal vilification from the Minister for Home Affairs.

Now we don’t want to dwell on his pathetic attempt to bully our great candidate in Dickson, Ali France.

But a negative slur often tells you more about the speaker than the recipient and I think it says a lot about the modern Liberal party. That rather than apologise straight away, his first instinct was to double-down on his attack.

And the current Prime Minister’s first instinct was to rush in and back him up - to defend the indefensible - rather than just do the right thing.

It was a test of character, it was a test of leadership – and the Prime Minister failed miserably.

And of course, friends, it won’t just be the Government attacking us.

The vested interests will rage against our reforms.

And some sections of the media will back them in.

I opened one particular paper last Saturday – you know, it’s the one you get for free at the airport. Hypothetically, let’s call it The Australian - and I saw this headline.

It actually, seriously, this was the quote on the headline:

“Vote Shorten and Bowen for the end of the world”

Now, I know in politics you’re not supposed to go around ruling things in or ruling things out.

But let me put it beyond any reasonable doubt, I wish to make it clear today that Labor has not either an Apocalypse Policy, nor an Armageddon Agenda.

I mean – more to the point – it’s not that angry ranting articles that are going to decide this election, it’s actually the conversations that we have with our fellow Australians.

It’s the policy work. It’s the vision of Australia. It’s understanding what’s happening in the kitchens and the lounge rooms of Australia that’ll matter.

But to have these conversations, to outline our fantastic fair go plan for Australians, it’s going to be your energy, the people in this room and the tens of thousands of Labor supporters across this country - that will make the difference.

If we are to change the nation, we need to engage with people and change minds, that is the difference.

This is the message that I want each and every one of you to take out from here and talk about, each and every day for the next 34 days.

This election is a choice between better hospitals and better schools – or bigger tax loopholes for the top end of town.

It’s a choice between getting wages moving again – or three more years of wage stagnation and cuts to penalty rates.

It’s a choice between real action on climate change – or three more years of infighting and rising power prices.

I mean after all voting Liberal on climate change when Malcolm Turnbull is no longer the Prime Minister is the triumph of hope over experience.

It is a choice between a party that believes in TAFE and apprenticeships or three more years of cuts to training.

Friends, after three Liberal Prime Ministers, 13 energy policies, 22 reshuffles, six wasted years of liberal chaos and division, our united Labor team is ready.

And we are deeply conscious that millions of Australians are counting upon us.

And I want to say to all those millions of Australians who are counting on Labor to deliver – we will not let you down.

I say to the pensioners struggling with their power bills, we will not let you down.

To Australians fighting cancer, we will not let you down.

To young people who can’t find an apprenticeship, we will not let you down.

To the farmers battling drought, we will not let you down.

To small businesses being squeezed by big businesses, we will not let you down.

To women who deserve equal pay and opportunity, we will not let you down.

To the Australians living with disability waiting for the NDIS, we will not let you down.

To people stuck on hospital waiting lists, we will not let you down.

I cannot promise these people that victory is assured, that will be up to the judgement of our fellow Australians.

But I can most certainly promise that my team and I will work as hard as we can every day between now and the election.

I can promise that at 6.00pm on election night, we will have given it everything we have.

And if we do that, if everyone in this room, if everyone in our movement who is interested in the progress of this nation, if we all give it everything what we have in the next 34 days then we will make Australia a better country.

Women and men of Australia.

A Budget should sketch the big picture.

Build for the long term, write Australia large.

Be ambitious, be as bold as the Australian people.

That’s what a Labor Government will do, strive for the best.

Because Australians deserve the best.

But instead, on Tuesday night, we received an exercise in numerology.

A recitation of numbers. No passion, no national story, no vision laid out to divine where the country is and where the country is going. And no reform.

The same promises made and broken, six years running.

Yes, there is a third Prime Minister.

A third Treasurer.

But where it mattered, the same Liberal Budget.

The same void where an energy policy should be.

The same failure on stagnant wages and rising cost-of-living.

The same denial on climate change.

The same $14 billion cut to schools.

And the same $2.8 billion cut to hospitals.

So tonight, the first commitment I can give Australians – and one of the most important:

If we win the next election, we will put back every single dollar the Liberals have cut from public schools and public hospitals.

There was one new feature in this Budget, albeit troubling.

The short-changing of the National Disability Insurance Scheme by $1.6 billion, to prop up a flimsy budget surplus forecast.

Now it looks a lot more like dodgy accounting than good economic management.

I freely acknowledge government members sincerely care about people with disability.

But the truth is, the record of the last six years, the government has made a record of poor decisions regarding the NDIS.

Sacking the board.

Delaying the signing of funding agreements with the states.

Capping staff numbers for the National Disability Insurance Agency – leading to an outbreak of contractors and consultants undermining the system.

And then – after all these policies that hamstring delivery of services – the Government shrugs, and say the $1.6 billion wasn’t needed, because of a lack of demand.

There are thousands of Australians who have embraced the promise of the NDIS but whose legitimate demands have simply not been met.

The young man in Ballarat who has waited more than two years for a wheelchair, waited so long that he ended up in hospital with pressure sores.

The family whose daughter has an intellectual disability, who have waited ten months for funding for the speech therapy she needed to learn to make friends at school.

Or the family of a profoundly deaf young man who was denied interpreters and training in Auslan and has spent the last two and a half years appealing the decision.

All these people… the carers seeking modest respite…the parents, the loved ones, filling out the forms, calling time and time again for promises not fulfilled, waiting on the phones….

They do not tell me there is a lack of demand, they’re talking about a desperate need.

Working with the Member for Jagajaga, with people with disability, their carers and an army of advocates to help create the National Disability Insurance Scheme is one of the most rewarding things I’ve ever been part of.

And tonight I can give every Australian living with disability and the people who love them this personal commitment: that if we are elected as the next government –

We will lift the NDIA cap on staff numbers, so we can get the support out the door, keep the promises made to people with disabilities.

And we will put people with disability back at the centre of decision-making in the National Disability Insurance Scheme.

We will get the NDIS back on track.

I acknowledge our opponents have finally seen the light on supporting the bigger, better and fairer tax cuts for 10 million Australians that I put put forward at my last budget reply speech.

And tonight I can confirm that, from 1 July –

If you earn between $48,000 and $126,000 - no matter who you vote for in May - you will get the same tax refund.

But the Liberal tax plan does not do enough for 2.9 million Australians who earn less than $40,000.

About 57 per cent of these are women.

Child care workers and classroom assistants.

Hairdressers, office managers.

And they are parents returning to work, part-time.

In a lot of cases, these are the very same workers in retail, hospitality, pharmacy and fast food who have already had their penalty rates arbitrarily cut.

Tonight, I am pleased to say that in Chris Bowen’s first Budget –

Labor will provide a bigger tax refund than the Liberals for 3.6 million Australians.

All told, an one billion dollars, for low-income earners in this country.

There’s always a lot of talk about tax from those opposite – but here is the simple truth:

6.4 million working people will pay the same amount of income tax under Labor as the Liberals.

And another 3.6 million will pay less tax under Labor.

But we will not be signing-up to the Liberals’ radical, right-wing, flat-tax experiment, way off in the future.

A scheme which would see a nurse on $50,000 paying the same tax rate as a surgeon on $200,000.

We won’t back a plan that gives a retail worker on $35,000 less than $5 a week…

…while an investment banker pockets more than $11,000 a year.

This is not a tax plan, it’s a ticking debt bomb.

And it is neither fair nor responsible to lock-in these billions of dollars in tax giveaways flowing disproportionately to a relatively few Australians – and so far into the future.

Especially when you consider the foreboding we see in the global environment.

Brexit
Trade wars
The write-downs in global growth
The massive increase in global debt
The drop in the 10-year bond yields.

This is the time when Australia should be building a strong surplus, a fiscal buffer.

The Liberals talk about being back in the black – but the Budget papers reveal a much paler shade of grey.

What we need is a fighting fund for the nation, a strong surplus to protect us from international shocks.

Surpluses built on real reform – not cutting schools and hospitals, not short-changing the NDIS and not banking on the price of ore in a blue sky environment.

And tonight I recommit that is what Labor will take to the next election – stronger surpluses, paying down national debt faster.

Guaranteeing everything from our commitment to defence spending at 2 per cent of GDP, drought relief for farmers and keeping our borders secure.

Nearly six years ago, my united team and I made a choice.

We decided not to be the kind of Opposition who just stay quiet, cross our fingers and hope the Government would tear itself apart.

We decided to lead the reform debate, with a bold agenda.

We believe the Australian people are hungry for a united, stable government with a real vision for the future, one that can make hard decisions.

We believe government has a responsibility to leave the place better than we found it.

That’s why we’re going to stop the intergenerational unfairness in our tax system.

If you’re currently negatively gearing the rules won’t change.

If you want to use it on new homes, you still can.

But we cannot have property investors playing with loaded dice against our young people, Generation Y and the Millennials.

And instead of patronising millions of young Australians with lectures about cutting back on smashed avo.

Why don’t we tell them the truth:

Getting together a 20 per cent deposit - plus stamp duty - is so much, much harder than it was 20 or 25 years ago.

And it’s even more difficult, when your government uses your taxpayer money to subsidise the property investors bidding against you.

The intergenerational bias that the tax system has against young people must be called out.

A government has to be brave enough and decent enough to stop the bias against first home buyers and young Australians.

And we will be that government.

The same goes for dividend imputation.

If the tax office pays a tax credit to someone who pays no tax, this is a gift.

It’s a gift that is costing taxpayers nearly $6 billion every year – and growing so fast that it will soon be more than what we spend on public schools.

Now it’s not illegal, it’s not immoral – but it’s just not sustainable anymore.

The climate change debate has poisoned this parliament for ten years – and it has most certainly paralysed the current Government.

So tonight let’s deal in simple facts:

Climate change is real.

It’s doing real damage to our economy - and our environment.

And we can measure cost of inaction: bushfires, droughts, floods, in extreme weather and damage to our farmland and our Reef.

For the sake of the Australia that we hand on to our children, a Labor Government will reform, will not shirk the task of reform - it will take real action on climate change.

Now tonight – and at this election - Labor is offering the Australian people a fully-funded Fair Go Action Plan.

Building an economy that works for everyone.
Investing in an education system that creates opportunity for everyone.
Fixing the wages system so it delivers for everyone.
Reforming the tax system so it is fair for everyone.
And funding a health system that is there for everyone.

We believe Australia does best when working class and middle class Australia gets a fair go.

When the economy is managed in the interests of everyone.

When the people who create our national wealth, get their fair share of the national wealth.

And when everyone has an equal chance to fulfil their potential.

This is why investing in the future, always begins with education.

This is where the difference between Labor and the Government could not be more stark.

Nine out of ten new jobs created in the next four years will require either a university degree or a TAFE qualification.

Only a Labor Government will be prepared to properly fund both.

We’ll uncap university places, opening the doors of higher education to an additional 200,000 Australians.

And when it comes to vocational education, Labor is backing public TAFE all the way.

I’ve been fortunate to have visited about 30 TAFEs around Australia since the last election.

The teachers and students are inspirational.

So tonight I’m pleased to announce that we are going to double the size of our Rebuilding TAFE fund – up to $200 million to renovate campuses in regional and outer-suburban Australia.

This will mean:

This will mean new facilities for training nurses in Caboolture and Devonport.
New workshops in Midland and Bellevue, to make sure the  METRONET train carriages work goes to apprentices.
A new construction centre for tradies in Chadstone and Frankston.

And so much more.

Labor will also pay the upfront fees for 100,000 TAFE places to get more Australians training in high-priority courses.

And tonight I am proud to announce that 20,000 of these places will be allocated to a new generation of aged care workers and paid carers for the National Disability Insurance Scheme.

My mother was a great teacher.

She taught me that you can measure a nation’s values by how much it values education.

I want every child in Australia to get the one-on-one attention that they need to thrive.

I want Aboriginal kids to get genuine equal opportunity, children with disability or learning difficulties getting the support they need.

I want every child participating in sport, trying drama, learning music, going on camps, getting access to new technology.

And not as optional extras, to which parents pay increasing levies, not and luxuries that rely on the teachers raising the money themselves.

I want it guaranteed.

Guaranteed because every school in Australia should offer every child the same world of opportunity.

And there’s one more thing that we will do to make Australian schools the best in the world – we’ll make Tanya Plibersek the Minister for Education.

Experts tell us ninety per cent of a child’s brain develops before the age of 5.

And two years of preschool or kindergarten is the rule in countries at the top of the global education ladder:

South Korea
Norway
New Zealand
France
And the United Kingdom

Last year, China enrolled 46 million three year olds in pre-school programs.

Australia is falling behind in the early years education – and that affects our children right through their educational lives.

If you vote Labor, we will guarantee universal access to pre-school or kinder for every three year old and every four year old in Australia.

15 hours a week, 40 weeks a year.

Two years of pre-school is global best practice – and it’s only just good enough for our kids.

Our vision for education and training is all about putting Australia on the high road to the future:

High skill workers. High quality products.

High value services. And higher-wage jobs.

This means backing local businesses and industries.

We backed a tax cut for small and medium businesses.

And we will provide an extra 20 per cent tax break for every business that invests in productivity-boosting equipment above  $20,000 – whether that’s a big manufacturer buying new technology, or a tradie getting a new ute.

And we will invest in industries where Australia can be best in the world – I speak of:

Agriculture and Tourism
Hydrogen Energy
Science and research
Advanced Manufacturing
Mineral exploration, to unearth new wealth

Defence industry - and commercial ship-building, to revive our Merchant Marine and see more Australian ships, flying the Australian ensign.

Embracing renewables will also create thousands upon thousands of new jobs for Australia.

Labor will provide a $2000 payment to families who want to join the fight against climate change and the fight to lower their power bills by installing a battery storage system.

And here’s the remarkable thing - we already have every single resource to make a lithium battery, right here in Australia.

So instead of the usual trope of shipping the minerals overseas and buying back the finished product at vastly inflated prices, let’s make the batteries here.

And let’s do this with electric vehicles and charging equipment and stations too.

Supported by Australia’s first Electric Vehicle Policy.

And rather than relying on China and India to accept our plastic and waste…

…or to leave it choking our waterways and killing our marine life, let’s recycle it here at home.

When it comes to clean technology, I believe we can make three words famous right around the world: Made in Australia.

Building an economy that works for everyone means a massive building program, right across our nation.

We will reinvigorate jobs in the construction sector:

With our Build-to-Rent plan.
Targeting Negative Gearing to new housing.
Renovating the national energy grid with new pipelines, interconnectors, hydro and storage.
Launching the biggest affordable housing program since the Second World War – building a quarter of a million new homes.

And we will invest in safe accommodation for women fleeing violent relationships.

Because too often, when the worst happens, people still say:

“Why didn’t she leave?”

What we should ask is:

“Where would she go?”

Labor has transport plans and projects ready to go in every state and territory:

Cross River Rail in Brisbane
Western Sydney Metro
Suburban Rail Loop in Melbourne
The Bridgewater Bridge in Tassie
South Road in South Australia
METRONET in Perth
Upgrading the roads around Kakadu
And Phase 2 of the ACT light rail.

And – thanks to Albo’s hard work – the work is just beginning.

Labor will continue to develop and support the development Northern Australia: including overdue upgrades for the beef roads and the Rocky ring road.

And tonight I can announce we will deliver $1.5 billion to upgrade the Gateway Motorway from Bracken Ridge to the Pine River - and the next stage of the Bruce Highway from the Northern Suburbs to Caboolture.

There’s another big difference between Liberal and Labor on infrastructure.

In their budget you have to vote for the current Prime Minister at this election…

… then you have to vote for whoever is their leader at the next election…

…and that’s before anyone even digs a hole.

Our projects are not on the never-never, they are locked in to our first budget.

There's another difference that I offer the Australian people, frustrated by the constant short-termism in the infrastructure debate.

If we are elected, I will invite the then-Opposition Leader to be involved in nominating directors to Infrastructure Australia, so we take the politics out and we make generational decisions in infrastructure for once and for all time.

And every time we invest Commonwealth dollars in infrastructure projects.

We’ll make the rule that 1 in 10 people employed must be an Australian apprentice.

The bad news is that over the last six years under the Liberals, apprenticeships have fallen by 150,000.

The good news is because of our vision:
in infrastructure housing construction the NDIS
TAFE and training early childhood education energy and the digital economy

…a Labor Government can repair the damage done.

Tonight, I say we will help train 150,000 apprentices for the jobs of the future.

We will provide additional support for businesses which take them on – both young people and mature age workers looking to re-train and to learn new skills.

And we’ll create an Apprentice Advocate – because the tragic death of an 18 year old apprentice on the Macquarie Park site last week, reminds us that we’ve got to protect our apprentices and they have the same right to come home safe as everybody else.

The next election will be a referendum on wages.

We need to get wages growth going again – for workers, for the economy, for confidence and consumption.

Because when we boost the spending power of working people, that money flows back into the tills of small businesses.

In the last six years, three Liberal Prime Ministers and three Liberal Treasurers have signed-off on official forecasts for wages growth…they have been wrong 27 times in a row.

27 times they have promised and not delivered.

On Tuesday night, the Treasurer boldly said he would “like” wages growth to be higher. He would “like” that.

After six years of stagnation: liking and wishing and hoping is not a plan for working people.

For the last six years, we’ve tried it their way, the Government’s way, the invisible hand, leave it to the market - we know how that ends

Since the last election, wages have risen by around five per cent – while company profits have increased nearly forty per cent.

Only Labor has a concrete, practical plan to get wages moving again.

1.   If we win the election we will legislate to restore the arbitrary cuts to Sunday and public holiday penalty rates in our first 100 days.
2.   We will stop companies using sham contracts and dodgy labour hire arrangements to cut people’s pay.
3.   Our Tradie Pay Guarantee means that subbies working on Commonwealth projects get paid on time, every time.

And we will help the 1.2 million lowest-paid Australians, by creating a living wage.

Of course, we will consult with employers and the independent umpire, and of course we will take into account the capacity of business in the economy to sustain the wages' growth.

But I don’t want any Australian adult who works full time, to be trapped in poverty.

A sensible, overdue plan to achieve moderate but meaningful improvement in wages.

And whenever we talk about fair pay, it includes equal pay and fairer conditions for the women of Australia.

A new push for better pay in women-dominated industries like early education.
New measures to help boost the superannuation of working women.
And 10 days of paid leave for people dealing with family violence.

This is what you get from a political party that walks the walk on equality for women – and has so many talented women in our ranks in parliament right now.

At this election we are offering a genuine alternative for regional Australia.

Better support for our dairy farmers to get a fair deal.
Working to restore the Murray Darling to health.
Helping restock the cattle herd of North Queensland.
New investments in eliminating mobile black spots – and a more reliable NBN for small business.

And not only will we put back the $83 million the Liberals cut from the ABC…

We’ll provide another $10 million to support regional news and emergency broadcasting, especially in areas affected by natural disasters such as Townsville, Tasmania and regional Victoria.

We can also give regional communities this simple, important pledge: no more privatising and out-sourcing human services in the bush.

If you’re a pensioner or a veteran living in the regions, you shouldn’t be stuck on hold for hours waiting for help.

You should be able to speak to a human being, face-to-face.

You deserve no less.

And to my fellow Australians

Tonight I want to conclude by talking to you directly in your lounge rooms, about our vision for the most significant investment in Medicare in a generation.

Cancer is one of the biggest killers in our national.

Not for nothing is it called the Emperor of all Maladies.

One in two of us will be diagnosed with cancer at some stage in our life.

145,000 of our fellow Australians are diagnosed with cancer each year.

And 50,000 die.

One way or another, we will all witness the ordeal.

I saw it with my Mum and her battle with breast cancer.

Chloe and I have seen it with dear friends of ours – some old, some far too young.

Cancer is frightening, it’s isolating, it’s exhausting.

And – all too often though – it is impoverishing.

For so many people, cancer makes you sick and then paying for the treatment makes you poor.

And I think a lot of Australians would be surprised to learn that all those vital scans and tests and consultations with specialists are not fully covered by Medicare.

Instead, they cost hundreds of dollars, adding up to thousands, out of your own pocket.

Australia has the highest rates of skin cancer in the world – and most people pay over $5000 for the first two years of their treatment.

One in four women diagnosed with breast cancer pay over $10,000 for two years of scans and tests.

Some men with prostate cancer are paying more than $18,000.

And if you’re in Stage 4 cancer, you have to quit work, so your finances are already under horrendous strain.

If you live in the regions, there are the added costs of travel and accommodation.

Every year 300,000 Australians who need radiology just don’t get it – because they can’t afford it.

That’s three hundred thousand of us.

We are a smart country, we’ve got the best health care staff, we are a rich country, we are a generous country – and we are better than the statistics I read out.

If someone you love has cancer, you’d sell the roof over your head if it would help, you’d sell the shirt off your back - but should you have to?

Our fellow Australians pay your taxes to Canberra. You pay your Medicare levy.

And if I am elected Prime Minister, I’m going to make sure the health care system is there for you when you need it most.

So tonight, I am announcing the most important investment in Medicare since Bob Hawke created it.

Labor’s $2.3 billion Medicare Cancer Plan.

To my fellow Australians, I will explain what that will be used for.

First, if we win the election, we will invest $600 million towards eliminating all of the out-of-pocket costs for diagnostic imaging.

Over four years, this will mean six million free cancer scans, funded by Medicare.

CT scans
PET scans
Mammograms
X Rays
Ultrasounds

Reducing the out-of-pocket costs for cancer patients from hundreds of dollars, to zero.

And this will apply to MRIs too.

Today, only half the MRI machines, that amazing technology - half the machines in Australia are covered by Medicare.

People in the bush and the regions often have to drive hours, or pay thousands.

If we win the election, not only will we provide new MRI machines to communities where they are needed most.

We are going to change the game.

We will guarantee that every single MRI machine which meets national standards, every single machine is covered by Medicare for cancer scans - full stop.

The second part of our plan is to deal with the cost of seeing a specialist.

As anyone knows, treating cancer relies on a marvellous team of experts.

Medical oncologists in charge of your diagnosis and ongoing chemotherapy and immunotherapy.
Surgeons performing your operations and monitoring your recovery.
Radiation oncologists designing targeted radiation therapy plans to destroy cancer cells.

These appointments are part of your weekly routine, often for years.

There is the trips, the waiting, the treatment, the recovery.

Thousands of dollars.

A new Labor Government will invest $433 million to immediately cover specialist consultations for cancer patients.

What this means over the next four years, is it means that an additional 3 million appointments will be bulk-billed – with no out-of-pocket costs.

Reducing what you pay from hundreds of dollars – to zero.

And thirdly: our Affordable Medicine Guarantee.

Every drug recommended by the independent experts, will be listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.

Not just cutting the cost of your treatment – cutting the cost of your cancer medication too.

Cancer is a curse.

I wish I could stand here tonight and guarantee you that we will find a cure.

But no politician can give that promise.

We will continue to support our scientists in their work, we will invest in the research and the clinical trials.

And until the day that we find a cure, I promise the men and women of Australia this:

Under Labor - if you are battling cancer, you can focus on getting well, without worrying about going broke.

I can promise that if you are in the fight of your life - a Labor Government will be alongside you every step of the way.

To summarise what our first four years of Labor’s Medicare Cancer Plan means for Australians: Up to 6 million free cancer scans, 3 million free appointments with specialists, and an affordable medicine guarantee

This is our vision for the future.

This is our vision to build Medicare.

And we can pay for it – and deliver it – because of our reform decisions.

We choose our health care system over bigger tax loopholes.

So in conclusion, my fellow Australians –

I suspect that some in the government will spend a lot of time telling you to be afraid.

Afraid of change. Afraid of new ideas.

Afraid of the future. Afraid of each other.

I expect we’ll see more of that in the campaign ahead.

I have a different view.

I’m optimistic about our nation’s future, because this country has so much going for us.

A continent to call our own, next to the fastest-growing economies in the world.

The resources to be an energy superpower.

The skills and the science and the get-up and go to create new industries.

And best of all, we have our people: Australians are hard-working, caring, brave, smart and generous.

We will never be the biggest country in the world, we will never seek to impose our ideology on other nations  – but do I believe that if we’re not the biggest, we can still aim to be the best.

The best in education and skills.

The best in health and aged care and looking after people with dementia.

The best in fair wages and fair reward for your work.

That is the real choice that our country faces at this election, that’s the decision every Australian has to make.

Do you want the best health care system in the world, or the biggest tax loopholes?

Do you want your children to get a world’s best education, or the world’s most generous tax subsidies?

Do we want a fairer, more equal country where the economy works in the interests of everyone, or do we want another three years of drift, with the top end of town profiting much better than everybody else.

My team and I have made the reform decisions to put forward a Fair Go Action plan for Australia, so that Australia can be the best that we should be.

Labor offers stability and unity and a vision for the nation.

We choose hope over fear.

We choose the future over the past.

We choose the best support possible for people with cancer.

We choose fair wages and good jobs.

We choose TAFE and apprenticeships.

We choose a Voice for the First Australians enshrined in our constitution.

We choose renewables and we choose real action on climate change.

We choose the ABC.

We choose equality for women of Australia - equality for everyone.

And if these things matter to you, if you believe that when all is said and done about politics, the most important things are family and health.

If you believe that handing on a better deal to your kids than the one you inherited from your parents

If you believe that's what sort of vision we should have for Australia

Then – when you cast your vote in May – choose a Labor Government, for all Australians.

It's exciting. We'll be in election in five or six weeks’ time, whenever the current government's fingernail marks are stretched across the concrete from beng forced to get in the car to go and visit the Governor General.

But whenever that is, we're ready.

And we are ready, not the least because we will be bringing to the Australian people the most comprehensive set of gender equality policies, policies which would see women get a fair go, that the Australian public have ever been presented with at an election - and this is a very exciting thing.

Gender equality, the equal treatment of women, the fair go for women, that's at the heart of the Labor mission.

It's what animates the members of the Parliamentary Party, our union movement, the broader community, our rank and file.

We genuinely believe that if we could achieve the equal treatment of women in this country, then this would be the finest country in the world.

If we accomplish nothing else as a government if we were to be elected, but secure the equal treatment of women, we would be in a place that the world has never seen - a society where men and women are truly equal.

This is a goal worth aspiring to.

To me it's a very personal proposition.

My mum was a very capable woman. So when you're raised by a capable woman it never occurs to you that women are not equal. In fact, you have this sneaking suspicion they're smarter.

Then you sort of spend your life trying to reconcile and get over it, that maybe you're okay too.

But the point about my mum is that she was first in her family to go to university.

She came from a working class family, she wanted to do law, but there was no money in the family.

She was the first to go to university, so she had to take the teacher's scholarship - and teaching is a great profession and she loved it all her life.

But she had to make a sacrifice for the rest of the family, and her two younger sisters, there was no money so they became nuns.

My family and my mum was raised in a world where women had to battle, not to get ahead, but just to get an equal go.

You know this theory, that women can only advance so long as the others - that's code for men, don't get pulled back. Well for the history of our country, the modern history of our country, women have always been forced to take a back seat to men.

It's not a case that when we talk about gender equality we want to do something special for women, we just want to address the imbalance, the unfairness that exists in our society.

This is not political correctness.

This is just about valuing us all.

It's funny, campaigning with Libby Coker in Corangamite, we visited a dairy farm to announce some good policies, but that's not for today.

But the farmer there, he was in his 60s, he was down on the Bellarine Peninsula, and I asked him where did you go to school?

And he went to Queenscliff State School, Secondary School, and I asked him that because that's where my mother taught, so I knew she had a connection down there when she finished her teaching degree.

And I said, ‘oh did Ann McGrath ever teach you?’

And he said, ‘Ann McGrath did teach me’.

And when you get to meet someone who knew your parent who's passed away, it's like a voice from beyond.

It's what you never get to do, to hear your parent's voice again, except through someone else, and he was her student.

And he said, Ann McGrath, he called her "Annie get your gun" and I said ‘why did you call her that?’

And he said ‘because she was a feminist before there were feminists.’

Because his mum was all for the rights of equal treatment of women too.

And for me to hear that my mum had been pushing the case - and I said ‘what do you mean?’

And he said ‘oh well me and my mum’ - this is the farmer, ‘were always sceptics about the blokes. They never took things at face value, they always insisted on their own point of view’ and that's why this is personal for me.

I truly believe that if my mother had different opportunities she would have, could have, done anything.

And she did great things as a teacher - don't get me wrong, brilliant.

But I always thought, and I suspect she always thought that maybe if circumstances had been different, by virtue of economy, by virtue of gender, that she didn't quite get the go that her abilities, if she'd been a bloke might have seen. That range of opportunities.

She was not bitter about that. It's just, it was what it was.

I can't go back in time and get my mum to be treated the way she should have been treated.

You can't turn back the clock on history.

But you can change the future.

You can change the future for everyone else.

I want my daughters, I want your daughters, I want all of you, I want the women of Australia just to get an equal go.

And our policies - they're not all of the answers, I understand that we're not arrogant, we're not hubristic.

There are lessons we will have to learn.

There are fights that we perhaps haven't even thought of yet, which we will have to fight.

But you know when I look at the work of Tanya and Penny and all of the caucus and the blokes, all of the women.

This shows that we get it.

We don't have all the answers. We don't have all the solutions yet, and we haven't won all the battles. But this is a plan.

When people say about modern politics that it's all just you know, focus groups, where's the vision, people are sick of the instability.

I say to you, have a look at this.

We don't regard launching women's policy as an optional extra, the last paragraph in a Budget.

We regard a fair go for women as core business.

When you look at our policies here, superannuation - $2.6 billion dollars extra for women over 10 years - $400 million soon.

Chris and others have all been driving it - Clare, we have all been driving it.

Childcare - why on earth are we still arguing about childcare?

How on earth did we get to a set of events, where this government has managed to take childcare off one in four families.

How is it that we've got a government who doesn't want to give three year olds universal kindergarten, it's a cost of living issue.

How is it that we have a situation where our early childhood educators who do crucial work, the first adults that families entrust children outside of the family unit to, and yet we devalue their work, largely I'd submit to you because it's a feminised workforce.

How is it that we still have so many women facing the threat of violence.

Especially, but not exclusively, from people who once said they love them.

How is it they can't get some time off when they're the victims of violence, just to just get the bills right, sort the kids out at school.

Just that crucial life maintenance, which most of the men who opposed paid family leave will never have to experience.

You know when we look at our policies and all the recent tax changes this government has made - they've even found a way to shortchange people who earn less than $40,000 a year.

Now 57 per cent of Australians who earn less than $40,000 a year are guess what - women.

So we want to rectify that too.

We have got a package for working women. We've got a package for women.

Better protection from violence and better support when you're the victim of violence.

We've got a package to support better retirement savings.

We've got a package to make sure that we do something about improving the pay of low paid workers, and the tax refunds which go to low paid workers, which are preponderantly women.

We make no apologies for wanting to lift wages for millions of wage earners, because that will benefit women.

We make no apologies for wanting to put the penalty rates back, because that affects women.

So we've got a view about the fundamental fair go for women, but it doesn't stop there.

Apprenticeships, we are going to pay for the upfront fees of 100, 000 apprentices.

But we're saying half of that - there's a catch though, half of those apprenticeship places have to go to women.

And Tanya mentioned an issue of reproductive choice policy.

You know, we were talking recently and I know what a passionate advocate she and so many Labor women have been for reform in this area.

But you know the question I really had is why did it take so long, and I get it had to be fought for.

But now it's actually being fought for and now we've actually supported it, like many good reforms when you do it the morning after people say, 'oh yeah. Why did it take so long?' And that's the art of change.

You win the argument and then the actual victory, and the implementation is actually far less controversial than perhaps fears might be otherwise.

But for me it all comes back to this basic notion.

Why should any of our daughters have to grow up in a world where they work two months longer each year, than the little boys to get equal pay.

Why can't women be safe at home and on the streets.

Why can't we have the idea that women can retire with better retirement savings.

Why can't women have a say and control over their own health choices.

It's all about a fair go.

But the best way to achieve a fair go for women is to have more women in the parliament.

And that's what the Labor Party is going to do.

We've got it right, but we're going to do it better.

And I thank everyone who is has worked on this.

Because you can't make it right for what's happened before, but we can make it right for all those who come after us.

There are many Australians who have never set foot inside a mosque, but today, there are millions of Australians who are here with you in their hearts to express solidarity for the dreadful, dreadful murders, the killing of innocent worshippers by an ideology of hate, an extreme right wing act of terrorism.

And I know that there are literally millions of Australians who want me to say to you on behalf of all of them: Today, we are all Australian.

Today, I am in a marvellous mosque, a place of religious worship, and what I see in front of me are Australians, are Australian Muslims, are Australians from all walks of life and we stand alongside the entire Australian Muslim community today and every day.

Thank you very much for inviting us here with you all.

It is perhaps uncomfortable to realise that it takes a terrible event like that which we've seen in Christchurch for so many of us to stop and think about who we are as a people.

Unbelievable - I never thought I would utter the words "an Australian terrorist" but that's what's happened. And that is a great shame.

And where ever I've been in Australia in the last 48 hours so many Australians of all walks of life have said to me "how can this be?"

Because this is not who we are. This person does not represent who we are, who we want to see in the mirror.

We are a generous people, we are good people, but we've also witnessed this unspeakable evil.

I do not know how difficult it was for people here to go home and explain to their children on Friday night that you will be safe - for parents to reassure kids that this shouldn't happen.

These are conversations none of us should ever have to have.

But I want to also acknowledge that members of the Australian Muslim community have experienced a growing tide of hate speech - and we must be honest that what has happened in Christchurch has been part of a much longer journey - although this is unspeakable in its evil.

And what I want to promise you is that no more hate-speech should tolerated.

Not all right wing extreme hate speech ends in right wing extreme violence. But all extreme right wing violence started in hate speech.

So there are families grieving, there are people battling for their lives and it's very early days to learn the lessons, but one lesson I promise you that I hear in my party, the Labor Party, is there's no such thing as good hate speech.

If you create a swamp of hate speech then you cannot disown what crawls out of the swamp.

Today I just want to express the solidarity of my party and the many millions of your fellow Australians, and I want to make this final promise to you.

Not only will we learn the lessons, not only will we say no to hate speech, but what I also want to say to you positively is that in coming days there'll be a debate about what is a good Australian. I want to repeat to you today what I fundamentally believe.

A good Australian is not judged by the number of generations you've lived in this country.

A good Australian is not judged by the amount of money you have in your bank account, the postcode you live, the size of the car you drive, or the house where you live.

A good Australian is not determined by the god you worship, by the person you love.

A good Australian is not determined by your gender.

A good Australian is someone who is a good neighbour.

A good Australian is someone who has a good heart. A good Australian is someone who adheres to their law and their faith. A good Australian  is someone who is courageous in their own troubles and kind in another. A good Australian is what is in here and the way we treat our fellow human beings.

I am in a marvellous building full of people of all faiths and perhaps of none. And I am in a marvellous building full of good Australians.

Hello and thank you for attending and thank you to the Islamic Council of Victoria for inviting me and my colleagues Mark Dreyfus, Maria Vamvakinou, Tim Watts and Peter Khalil to demonstrate solidarity with your community.

Can I say that I think and I know, there are literally tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of  Victorians and millions of Australians who feel solidarity with you today.

What I see here in front of me and what I wish to say beyond this room is, I'm in a room full of Australians. I'm in a room full of Australians, many of whom practice the Islamic faith.
But first and foremost I'm in a room of Australians. And one of the reasons why I'm here is because frankly I am like so many millions of Australians in that we feel impotent, outraged, disgusted, ashamed of what happened in Christchurch.

I'm going to use a phrase I never thought I would ever use: an Australian terrorist committed an act of violence in New Zealand. A horrible act of violence against a defenceless group of worshippers at two mosques.

There will be days and weeks to examine and months to try and examine why. But there really is no satisfactory explanation as to why.

Forty-nine people murdered in the most vulnerable and defenceless of circumstances, at prayer. Another 48 with injuries some of which are very serious. And it was an Australian who did this.

But this is not an Australian who represents Australia.This is not the way we are.

That is why solidarity today is so important. In this country, or in any country, your religion should not be a reason for abuse, criticism, and indeed for worse, the violence that we've seen.

I can't begin to imagine how some Australians felt waking up this morning, thinking that because of their faith, that somehow they are less equal and potentially subject to violence and abuse. I cannot imagine it.

But I can say to you and all of the communities and faith groups you represent and the families and organisations that you represent, please take the message that 99.99 per cent do not support the hate.

And you need to reassure, in particular your children. As adults for better or for worse we can work through what life deals - not easily - but how do we explain it to our kids, I had to try and explain this to my own children last night.

There is no good explanation for this. All I can try and do today is indicate to you as leader of one of the two major political parties in the country, that my party will never tolerate not just the violence - no one tolerates the violence or should tolerate it - but the circumstances which give rise to it.

Let me be clear, not all right wing extremist hate speech ends in violence. But all right wing extremist violence started in hate speech.

We'll never know what could have been done to prevent what happened in Christchurch, and we support the work of the New Zealand Government, and we express our solidarity not just to the New Zealand Muslim community of Christchurch but the New Zealand community generally.

And it may be too early if people grieve and mourn, as families worry about loved ones fighting for their very lives in hospitals in Christchurch, but now is the time to repudiate once and for all, not just the violence, but the circumstances, the hate speech which breeds the violence.

Nations have choices in times like this. We can choose to retreat into our smaller tribes, into our smaller groups. We can choose to retreat into faith based communities of one faith or another, one community or another.

And in those smaller groups, in those retreats back to just dealing with your own, we can decide that we can live with fear and with hate and suspicion of everyone else.

Or we can make a choice to combat as one famous man once said "the stain of blood". We can choose to confront that, we can choose to repudiate the fear, the suspicion. We can choose to embrace, we can choose - as we heard -  to fight fear and anger with love and tolerance.

These are choices nations make. These are choices we make as citizens of our nation.

Do we retreat into ourselves and be suspicious of people who seem different? Or do we reach out? Do we embrace? Do we accept that whilst we may worship different gods or none that we actually have far more which we have in common.

This nation more often than not has chosen the latter approach - to embrace, to be tolerant, to welcome diversity, to understand what makes a good Australian.

In closing I just want to say to all of you and beyond you to the broader Australian community - what makes a good Australian is not how many generations you've been here.

What makes a good Australian is not how much money you have, what postcode you have what house you live in, what makes a good Australian is not your gender, is not who you love or what god you worship.

What makes a good Australian instead is how you treat your fellow neighbour.

Whether or not you obey the laws and participate in your community. Whether or not you raise your kids right.

What makes a good Australian is what is in your heart. What makes a good Australian is courage in your own problems and kindness in another's.

You have the solidarity of my party, and there are millions of Australians, I know, who when confronted with the violence, the murder, the evil, the insanity, when confronted with the hate, there are millions of Australians who would wish they were here with me today to say to you: we are in this together.

Violence against anyone is violence against all of us. Hate on anyone diminishes us all as a people.

I'm in a room of very good Australians. I'll let everyone else know, wherever I am.

So much Labor passion, energy, enthusiasm – even some live music.

Now I was going to say there’s a festival atmosphere in the air but that might mean the Liberals would try and close down the event down.

I too acknowledge the traditional owners of this land, I pay my respects to elders past, present and emerging.

And at any Labor event or gathering these words are not just the sign of respect, they are a promise for action.

Because every Labor Government is committed to do a better deal and greater equality for our First Australians.

And friends, in New South Wales, if Labor is elected in 13 days’ time our first Australians will get some overdue equality in this state.

Her in New South Wales you have got a remarkable, passionate and dedicated Labor team to support.

And at this election, you have a great opportunity – you have an opportunity to make Michael Daley Premier in a new Labor Government in New South Wales.

You know, that when you look at what’s been happening in Sydney - and indeed right around your state – the choice is clear, the contrast is stark.

The Liberals and Nationals think that being in government is about telling people what to do.

But in the Labor Party, we know that being in government is about what we can do for the people.

The Liberals think that government is about helping their mates – and helping themselves.

We know government is about helping the people.

It’s about leaving the place better than when we found it, it’s about handing-on a better deal to the next generation than that which we inherited from the previous generation.

Now the late, great Neville Wran did that.

Barry Unsworth did that.

Bob Carr did that.

And Kristina Keneally did that.

This is what Labor Premiers and Labor Governments do, they build for the future.

And friends, we know that the best thing we can do for our society, for our community, for our economy, for the opportunities that our children will have in the future is to invest in education.

This, investing in education is the heart of Michael Daley’s vision:

Investing in the early years, pre-school for every three and four year old child, so that every child gets the best possible start in life.

It's about investing in proper funding for public schools - so that kids in the bush, kids with disability, kids from disadvantaged suburbs and poor families have an equal opportunity in New South Wales to get a world class education.

We say it loudly and proudly here today - great teachers and great schools change lives.

And today makes it very clear – only a Daley Labor Government will put in the money to make every school in New South Wales, a great school.

And – friends – in the Labor Party, here in New South Wales and right around Australia, we know investing in education is about backing public TAFE all the way.

If I’m elected as Prime Minister, I want to work with Michael and his marvellous team to renovate and revitalise TAFE campuses and workshops all over New South Wales.

And if Michael Daley is Premier he will make sure that people can enrol and study in those TAFEs, with no upfront fees at all.

And something really important – every time Labor Governments work together on a good infrastructure project, a real infrastructure project, like fast-tracking Sydney Metro West, we’ll make sure that the rule is that one in ten people employed is an Aussie apprentice, full stop.

TAFE is not something we discover in the dying weeks of an election, it is in the Labor DNA every day of the year.

Nowhere knows better than New South Wales that the Liberals have spent years cutting schools and cannibalising and privatising vocational education and they suddenly want to try and use schools and TAFE as a backdrop for their photo opportunities.

It’s really about as convincing as Scott Morrison pretending that he cares about promoting women.

It’s about as convincing as Tony Abbott pretending that he cares about climate change.

It’s about as convincing as Peter Dutton pretending he cares, all - full stop.

There is only one party and one leader at this election passionate about the future of education, the future of schools, the future of apprentices, the future of TAFE, that it's Labor and Michael Daley.

Now friends,

This election is more than just a clash of policies, it’s not just a contrast in priorities.

It is a contest about values.

It is a question about who should democracy work for.

For eight years the Liberals and Nationals have put themselves ahead of the people of New South Wales.

They think that government is just about special jobs for party hacks, special treatment for party donors, special favours for Liberal-National cronies.

Trust me we see it in Canberra, and you see it in Macquarie Street.

The Liberals and Nationals using taxpayers’ money and government power to look after those who already have money and power.

In our Labor Party we take a different view.

Anyone who has spent five minutes talking to Michael Daley knows he is a man who loves his family, who loves his community and who genuinely cares about helping people.

He believes in public services and he believes in public service.

And as we saw the other day, he’ll always stand up for the ordinary people against the noisy and the powerful.

“Thanks for your service” - how good was that?

Michael is a great bloke, he’s a strong leader - and with your help, I believe he will be a great Premier of New South Wales.

New South Wales Labor are a great team - and with your help they can be a great government.

So, over the next 13 days, take every chance to talk to a friend, a neighbour, a colleague, someone at the club, the person in front of you waiting for their coffee.

Start a conversation. Make a phone call. Knock on a door. Spread the word.

And let's make the choice clear.

The conversation you leave unsaid could make the difference, so leave the conversation said.

If you want better schools and hospitals, vote for Michael Daley, vote for Labor.

If you want better TAFE and infrastructure, vote for Michael Daley, vote for Labor.

If you want a better deal for the people of New South Wales, all over this great state - vote for Michael Daley, vote Labor.

And if you want a government that will help the people instead of helping itself, vote for Michael Daley, vote for Labor.

At the moment, the national debate, like this summit, like this stage, is dominated by the word ‘trust’.

Because it’s a lack of trust in politics, in businesses, in institutions which is hurting our economy and our people.

It’s frustration with political instability, frustration with policy chaos, fed by shameless self-interest.

And right across our country, it’s leading to a widespread, dispiriting, exhausting sense that individuals can't make a difference, that fix is in, the deal is done. That individuals no longer have the say in their community which they once had.

This sense of powerlessness in our broader community is toxic, it’s corrosive. It's corrosive and toxic for all of us: for businesses, employers, community organisations, for political representatives.

And when some leaders dismiss the aspirations of ordinary people as “envy” or resentment or trying to drag others down, it actually makes things worse.

Because I genuinely believe that when people lose faith in the system, in the institutions we grew up with, in the rules which we say people should play by, when people feel like there’s no fair reward for their hard work and sacrifice, then you cannot achieve change.

It puts a handbrake on reform, it puts a handbrake on change and progress.

I read periodically business leaders bewailing 'where is the sense of change, why can't things get done?'

But when people feel that the system is not working in the interests of everyday Australians, you will find it harder - if not impossible - to build consensus and common purpose.

And whilst we are not at the levels we see in the United Kingdom or parts of American politics or European politics, if we don't do better at rebuilding consensus, we open the door to those who preach the politics of blame and division, those who would seek to blame minorities for the problems of majorities.

We see more political airtime given to those who urge a descent into extremism and fear, an extremism that Australia rejected, a long time ago.

It was actually way back at the end of the 19th century in the 1890s when Australian politics, in a remarkable era of fusion, of agreement, we turned our backs on left-wing ideology and right-wing ideology, we rejected zealotry.
In the new world, we were going to have no part of religious extremism.

Our country invented the ‘third way’ long before anyone else coined the phrase, we invented our own way in Australia, the Australian way.

We built a political and economic system on the centre ground.

A commonwealth in spirit, as well as name.

In our earliest days, we produced a unique wages system that encouraged employers and employees to find common ground, to work together.

We are the inheritors of one of the best social safety nets in the world.

And over the generations, we have expanded that model of the Australian way of a strong safety net and we've included more people in our nation's opportunities as a result.

We've expanded the Australian way with Medicare, with universal superannuation. More recently,  a National Disability Insurance Scheme

We've expanded the Australian way of bringing people with us by ensuring the ongoing erosion of prejudice and discrimination in our laws and practices

And through all the ebbs and flows of our nation's history, the spirit of that model, the Australian way of a new continent rejecting the ways of the old world and working together, that has served us very well.

It's possible in the digital media age to perhaps not look at the sweep of history and where we have arrived at but the Australian way has served us well.

Labor has fought to protect it – and modernise it.

Really, it's only been three conservative Prime Ministers who have seriously attempted to dismantle this framework of which I speak:

Stanley Melbourne Bruce, back in 1929.

John Howard with WorkChoices.

Tony Abbott with his 2014 Budget.

Now, the first two lost the elections that followed their policies, and indeed, their own seat.

The third, was replaced by his own party, and who knows what will happen in Warringah.

I want to submit to you this morning that the reason why Australia came through the Global Financial Crisis stronger and more cohesive than any other developed nation, the reason we avoided recession, when it struck the rest of the world was not just because of the Labor Government’s gold-standard stimulus package.

It was because of the Australian model – and at its best, what it delivers - the shock absorbers in times of economic stress.

We had a system which meant that we had stronger wages than other countries, meaning at the time of the GFC, fewer people trapped in working poverty. Stronger wages, which meant that fewer people were retiring poor.

And the Australian tradition is, proudly, one of co-operation between employers and employees.

Co-operation on training and skills, on superannuation. On wages, with a system that encourages negotiation, encourages compromise, encourages increases in productivity and consequent pay rises.

And, of course, the best example of co-operation is on health care. One of the most important, yet least-celebrated, qualities of our Medicare is that the cost of health care isn’t carried by the employers in Australia, like it is in the United States for example.

When Australians are looking for work, they don’t have to worry about whether their prospective employer will pay their health insurance.

Our system has delivered. But the truth we have to face now, on the threshold of the 2020s, is that our system needs to be renovated and renewed for the future.

Because in the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis and through the Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison years, we’ve seen a splintering of these old certainties.

We now have record lows in wages growth, stagnant real wages and cuts to penalty rates.

Inequality is at historic highs.

The enterprise bargaining system is collapsing.

The rise of insecure work, casualisation and labour hire and a million Australians every month recording their desire to work more hours than they are getting

And combined with these changes in the workplace and the stalling wages system and growth we have, under this government, big increases in what Australians pay for health care:

A 25 per cent increase in out-of-pocket costs to see a GP under this government
A 40 per cent increase in the out-of-pocket cost of seeing a specialist under this government.

In fact, big increases in the cost of living across the board.

Family budgets are being squeezed in a vice.

On one hand, you have rising living costs tightening family budgets and on the other hand, trapping them in the vice, you have stagnant wages growth.

And after years of everything going up except their wages, our fellow Australians are now digging deeper into their savings or putting themselves deeper in debt, just to pay the fortnightly bills, the expenditures.

Household savings are shrinking. And it doesn’t take long for savings to run down or run out, or credit card debt or interest to overwhelm you.

And we see this pressure, that everything is going up except wages, reflected in diminished confidence in the broader economy.

Retail trade in December fell by 0.4 per cent.

This heavy slump was broad-based and led by discretionary consumption, such as household goods.

In the December quarter just past, volumes barely lifted by 0.1 per cent.

For the year, a 1.6 per cent increase, this is a full percentage point below the ten year-average.

Now, the reason people are spending less on discretionary spending, on little luxuries, on the Sunday breakfast, on the Christmas presents, on the things which give you that edge of quality of life is because, after 5 and a half years of Liberal-National Government:

-      The cost of electricity is up 15 per cent

-      The cost of long day child care is up 24 per cent

-      Private Health Insurance premiums are up 30 per cent

For years, the Reserve Bank Governor – who I’m pleased to see here this morning - has been warning of the economic consequences of stagnant wages.

He calls it “The crisis in low pay”.

He’s spoken of the way that flat wages “diminish our shared sense of prosperity”.

And, last month, the cumulative pressure of shrinking household incomes – in his words: “less free cash”, “more difficulty”, “can’t spend.”

He is not alone.

Saul Eslake, Michael Blythe, Alan Oster have all made the same important point.

It is a very interesting time in Australian economics and Australian politics, that getting wages moving is not anymore a war-cry for class warriors but is regarded as the number one social and economic issue in the nation.

It is a fundamental economic imperative to get wages moving.

The truth is that at the moment, the unique spirit and achievement of the Australian way that I outlined at the beginning of my presentation, is under threat. It cannot be taken for granted.

Fixing it is going to require us to return to what has served our nation best in the long run: co-operation, consensus, common purpose.

Now, this isn’t a matter of winding back the clock to 1983. The way Australians work, the way we buy and sell and trade and communicate has changed – fundamentally, permanently and forever.

Thirty-six years ago, when Hawke and Keating came to government, if you’d just finished a trade or a university qualification, you could pretty much walk into a full-time job. And you’d reasonably expect to stay with that employer, for decades.

Thirty-six years ago, over 80 per cent of Australian workers were employed full time.

Today, it’s down to 69 per cent.

Back in 1983, around 1 million people worked part time. Now, it’s 4 million.

Our opponents, they like to say the word “jobs”. But they never actually talk about the quality of the jobs, the conditions, the job security – and the pay.

And when jobs growth is absorbed by casual work, by part-time work, by contract and labour hire, by insecure work, when the new jobs that are created are ones where you find out your shifts the night before by text, if you're working, this means that more people are in roles where they don’t have the power or the certainty or the position or the luxury to bargain for better pay and better conditions.

This is one of the biggest changes that we’re facing. It's right up there with the end of industries or changes in technology.

We are witness to the end of the old economic orthodoxy, the notion that supply and demand in the labour market is enough to boost wages - that as the labour-market tightens, workers are able to demand better wages.

What we've actually had is more than five years of wage stagnation under the current Government.

It is proof that ‘just leaving it to the market’ leaves Australians stuck in working poverty.

So yes, we need to breathe new life into the Australian way. We need a renewed sense of co-operation, a renewed willingness on all sides to sit down and negotiate.

But to achieve these things, we need a system that makes negotiation worthwhile, for both employers and employees.

Something the status quo under the current conservatives is manifestly failing to deliver and they simply can't because of their ideology.

I want to put to you today that the minimum wage is nowhere near adequate as a living wage - $18.93 an hour, if you were trying to live on it and I don't know if many people in this room are, it is difficult.

Award rates are now so far behind the market rates of pay that they actually belong in a different decade.

And the traditional method of climbing the ladder from the award minimum wage, enterprise bargaining is in a very, very weakened state.

Because the promise is, if we have a minimum wage, then you can do better than that through negotiation and bargaining.

But in 2018 we saw the lowest level of ratification of enterprise agreements in over 20 years.

You can't climb the ladder if the ladder is not there.

Put another way the system is failing those who need it most.

Think about it, the people who work for funded services, the people who have little or no bargaining power, people who work at the end of the supply chain.

Our system is failing Australians in labour hire, people who are trapped as those mythical unicorns of the employment market ‘permanent casuals’.

And it’s failing good employers too.

Because there are many good employers, those who've sat down and negotiated in good faith, who've moved beyond the award, have negotiated agreements with give and take, given pay rises better than their competitors because of improvements in productivity.

But every employer who has ever bargained now is facing an existential challenge, because those employers who never bothered bargaining have now got a competitive advantage because there is no movement in wages.

The good employers are at a competitive disadvantage, they are stranded by a system that now rewards the opposite approach to engaging in negotiations with employees.

We have a wages system that has degraded to reward a win-at-all costs mentality, a system that reinforces insecure work.

A system that treats Australian workers as mere commodities and their wages as costs to cut.

If we are elected as the next Government we will fix the wages problem.

We will restore Sunday and public holiday penalty rates arbitrarily cut by the Fair Work Commission.
We will  crack-down on sham contracting and the rorting of skills visas.
We’re going to stop the use of labour hire being used as a tool to drive down wages and job security of permanent labour in a business.
And we're going to make equality for working women a priority: in pay, in leadership and in superannuation.

And business, in the end, will say well done, because business will benefit just as much as the workers when workers have more income to spend.

For all these reasons, the next election will be a referendum on wages.

The next election will be a referendum on wages.

It will be a contest about who the economy should work for, in whose interests the system should serve.

I believe we need to renovate our system to revive negotiation and co-operation.

Our wages system, our remuneration system, need to be renovated to prepare our workforce for an economy that will change as much in the next twenty years as it did in the previous one hundred years.

To prepare for an economy shaped by artificial intelligence and automation taking over repetitive function.

To prepare for an economy where climate change creates new possibilities.

To prepare for an economy where the population is ageing, where communications are simply revolutionised.

Where mobility is increasing, where there are new vocations to be taught.

Where the economy shifts further to services and sharing.

An economy where we reject discrimination against women and take further steps to equality.

And a wages system that sends the right signals about professions that the community needs to value better – from early years educators to paid carers.

And let me now talk where some of the commentators here might not expect me to: about the employers.

I recognise that the work of renovation starts with employers.

I recognise the future of work and productivity begins with adaptive, innovative employers:
investing more capital taking risks being entrepreneurial employing new skills applying – and expecting – the highest levels of community standards.

In my working life I’ve never begun from the premise that the majority of employees don’t want to pay fair wages, abide by the law or create a safe working environment.

I understand and have witnessed and appreciate that the great majority of enterprises recognise that these things are good for their employees and good for their business.

And experience teaches us all that when society is adjusting to generational economic change, whatever the reason, we are best able to adjust to change in a society when we do so with a greater common understanding of each other’s needs, with a sense we are in this together. And we are.

Because when wages growth is too low, when consumption can only be funded out of personal indebtedness then demand is too low, confidence  - I guarantee you - is too low.

When wages are set too low, we send the wrong signal about the values our society places on vital professions: education, caring, the people who look after us when we’re sick, or as we grow older.

When out-of-pocket health costs increase, they put pressure on the living standards of all Australians and they put even more weight back on the wages system to compensate.

When retirement incomes are inadequate, that creates uncertainty and underinvestment for the elderly.

I understand that the best employers seek to meet the best standards:
for their customers their suppliers their shareholders and their employees

I understand that the greatest threat to good employers are those competitors who seek to extract the lowest wages, inflict the worst of conditions and start the race to the bottom.

My party and I, we are not class warriors, we know that employers are not a class enemy.

The Labor Party are the true custodians of the political centre of this nation – and we put people at the centre of decision-making.

Our policies are built on an understanding that the economy works best when it creates opportunities for middle class and working class people.

Yesterday was the 36th anniversary of Bob Hawke’s election victory.

Bob’s government helped draw me to the Labor cause, it inspired me to get into politics.

I have always been very comfortable and drawn to the notion that Australia works best when all are included, when no-one is left behind.

That we judge the quality of our society not just by the wealthiest but how we treat the least advantaged.

Our country works best we create common wealth by working together.

And the industrial relations system he and Paul Keating and Bill Kelty and others created is the environment in which I spent the first 15 years of my working life.

I’ll always be proud of my time in the union movement, I’ll always be grateful for what working people taught me.

And I’ve never made a secret of my respect for unions, the belief I have in their representative role, their vital part in our democratic and pluralist society.

But my time representing workers from the farms, to the oil rigs to underground mines and factories also taught me the importance of good employers, their irreplaceable contribution to the creation of national wealth.  No employer, no job.

And these are lessons I’ve held onto ever since: the value of consensus and negotiation, the spirit of the Accord. I do not believe in winner-take-all.

And if I am elected as the Prime Minister of Australia, this will be very much the approach I’ll take.

My colleagues and I will work with business, big and small.

We’ll work with farmers and start-ups and entrepreneurs.

We will encourage businesses to grow and invest and employ and export.

We will represent Australians looking for work, training for work, Australians in work and Australians retired from work.

And we will work with unions too.

We will urge unions to take their members into the 2030s and 2040s.

We will listen and negotiate and engage with all points of view.

But – as Bob Hawke himself said – we won’t be a handmaiden for any particular organisation or sector.

Our Accord will be with the Australian people.

Our Accord will be with the Australian people.

If my colleagues and I have the privilege of forming the next government of Australia, we will govern for everyone.

We will be a government for everyone, building an economy that works for everyone.

At the moment, though there’s one, unforgiving tax system for people who pay as they earn.

And then there is a whole exotic menu of loopholes and deductions and options for people who use their wealth and resources to opt-out of paying tax.

We will create one clear, fair set of rules.

At the moment, there is one inaccessible, unfair housing market for young people looking for a home.

And then another market awash with subsidies for investors seeking to expand their portfolio.

We’ll create a level playing field for everyone.

At the moment if you are a single parent, or on the disability pension, you get a threatening letter over a handful of dollars.

And yet some employers can withhold superannuation – and pay – for years without consequences.

We’ll apply one fair standard, for everyone.

At the moment, if you’re an Australian seafarer, you can be marched down the gangplank and off the job in the middle of the night.

But if you are a Cabinet Minister, you can jump ship straight away into a cushy private sector job.

We’ll bring fairness back in the workplace and integrity in politics with a national anti-corruption commission.

At the moment, if you live in the regions you're often denied the chance to go to uni, or learn a trade, or find a good job close to home.

We’re going to open the doors of education, for all Australians, no matter what their postcode. An extra 200,000 places to go to university in the next decade alone. Paying the upfront fees of 100,000 TAFE apprentices in the next three years alone.

At the moment, in Australia if you steal from a bank, you go to jail. If a bank steals from you they get a slap on the wrist.

We will hold the banks to account and get fair compensation for the victims.

At the moment, the Government is so consumed by the flat-earth arguments of whether climate change exists, they are simply too divided and incapable to do anything serious about this.

We will take real action because our children shouldn’t be left with a harder task and a worse planet, because of political infighting and paralysis on one side of politics.

Now, none of this is a matter of envy or grievance or resentment.

None of this is about picking one side of the argument against the other side, it is about the fundamental test that these times present us for all of us in politics and business.

We must rebuild trust, we must restore faith.

We must prove to the millions of people who will never set foot in a room like this, that they haven’t been forgotten, that their point of view matters.

We must prove that this country still works best when we work together.

Now is the time to renew and renovate our political discourse.

There is nothing wrong with consensus, there is nothing wrong with co-operation, there is nothing with compromise.

There is nothing wrong with leaving something on the table for the other point of view.

There is nothing wrong with conceding that no one side of politics has a monopoly on good ideas.

There is nothing wrong with conceding that regardless of how you contribute, you still have a point of view worth listening to.

And fundamentally, it is about rebuilding trust. It's about proving that we are in this for all Australians, not just for ourselves.

Labor has been calling for this Royal Commission since the 26th of May, 2017.

We understand that the Government does not know how to handle this issue. But that should not be a reason why we cannot vote on this issue of a Royal Commission.

The Senate did a very important report in examining the abuse and neglect of people with disability.

That report recommended, unequivocally, that there should be a Royal Commission.

Labor has met with carers, with people living with disability, with their advocates, with people with shocking stories to tell.

Now I understand that the Government says there's no need for, well, has sort of said that there's no need for a Royal Commission. That there is the NDIS, that'll fix matters up. Or that the Aged Care Royal Commission is a sufficient tool to look after people of disability.

There's no doubt that the Aged Care Royal Commission will look at how young people living in nursing homes are going - but that is not all people with disability.

There is no doubt that the NDIS has some standards and regulation which will cover about 10 per cent of the people within the NDIS scheme.

But Labor won't give up on this call for a Royal Commission.

We've heard this before. When we called for a Royal Commission into the banks, the Government said there was no need.

Eighteen months, two years later, the Government eventually came to the party.

But this Royal Commission into the lives of people with disability and the existence of neglect and abuse is in many ways much more urgent - and in some ways even more serious - than the Banking Royal Commission.

I want to draw the Parliament's attention, as we need to suspend standing orders to debate whether or not we should have a vote on the Royal Commission into disability, I draw to the attention of the Parliament the submission of Disability Clothesline.

It noted the propensity for abuse and neglect of people disability that are living in institutional care, to be ‘swept under the carpet’ and not properly investigated.

The submission contended:

That momentum for investigation inquiry of any allegations of this nature requires the following thresholds to be met.

And this is the criteria which normally generates a debate about having an inquiry.

That a person with disability is raped or abused or killed and there is enough evidence to assert that this has occurred. that the police or justice system has been unable or unwilling to act for a variety of reasons, that a parent of a child or an adult with a disability managed to garner some public interest usually via a sympathetic journalist after much letter writing and pleading to ministers.

Then the relevant ministers are forced to respond to reviewers announced after some lengthy period of time, a review is conducted and occasionally an institution can be closed.

But the problem is that often these criteria for momentum  never are fulfilled and in the meantime, people with disability are abused.

Now I understand that in this climate, with this contested parliament, at this point in the cycle of the 45th Parliament, it might be tempting just to dismiss this debate, and say well there is another time to do it.

But when is the right time to have a Royal Commission?  And if this is not the right time, when is it, and if we do not do it, it who will do it?

It is a fact beyond doubt, beyond any conjecture or debate, that people with disability are more likely to suffer violence than people without a disability.

It is a fact beyond doubt that children with a disability are three times as likely to experience bullying as children who do not live with a disability.

The accounts of abuse, in all its forms, are harrowing and I know every member of the Parliament is upset when they read these accounts.

The question is what is the solution to the system? Business as usual? Or something significant, something of a sufficiently cathartic and powerful nature that we reconsider the whole way in which we are treating people with disability and the fact that they are subject to violence abuse and neglect.

Too many people who have been victims of violence for too long have had to put up with their calls for help being ignored.

This call for a Royal Commission is part of our promise to protect people with a disability from the scourge of violence and bullying, from abuse and marginalisation.

When we first called for this Royal Commission, two years ago, we had no concept or knowledge of the current numbers in the house of Parliament.

For us, this has been an issue that we made a decision to back in two years ago and we make this decision to support a Royal Commission not because we believed we would have a majority in the House, but because the idea is the right idea for vulnerable Australians.

When we made that announcement I was accompanied by Senator Carol Brown and the Member for Jagajaga.

We met with people with disability, their parents, carers and the people who love them.

All members of the House have met the sort of people that I'm talking about, courageous people who call out abuse.

They've shared their experiences with us, their trauma and their pain.

For what it is worth, members of the House, recalling when we suspend standing orders in order to debate the merits of a Royal Commission into the lives of people with disability and the violence. What we want to say very clearly is this - and what they've said to us - is this Royal Commission is not for them. It's for all the people who are still suffering in silence.

No one in this House can guarantee that this abuse will not happen again.

No one in this House can guarantee that we have currently in this nation a foolproof system to protect vulnerable people from neglect and abuse.

Even on the very day that we announced this policy, Anne Mallia, whose precious son Matthew suffered abuse, made an appeal to Australia.

I'd like her words to be heard in this House now, even if it's in the context of this motion to suspend standing orders.

She said.

We need to protect not only the people who have stepped forward and voiced what's happened to them, but thousands of people and  adults and children who do not have a voice, who physically do not have a voice.

She went on to say this - and whether or not we are successful today or on another occasion, her words ring true.

She said:

We need to be their voices. We need to protect them. Let's do it now, today.

We gave a promise then, and we give a promise now to all of the self-advocates, to the families of the people who live with a disability, to all the parents who have teenage children who worry about who will keep them safe when they no longer can.

I make it clear that whatever happens in Parliament today Labor is committed to implementing a Royal Commission to protect people living with a disability from abuse.

Now, I understand that in the Senate it may be the case that the government who voted against the Royal Commission could receive the rescue party from One Nation to vote against a Royal Commission. I understand that whilst it may be the case, that those One Nation Senators, such as they are, are valuable allies to the government.

I'm going to ask the government to reconsider their opposition to a Royal Commission into disability.

And even if, people say you don't need to have a Royal Commission, I'll take that interjection from the current leader of Government business.

A Royal Commission can exercise coercive powers to compel the production of documents.

It can compel witnesses to appear to answer questions, to conduct its hearings in public.

It can accord witnesses protections that may not otherwise be available in court proceedings.

It is fiercely independent.

I know there have been many inquiries into this issue of protecting vulnerable people but all of these inquiries don't seem to stop the problem. They don't seem to have worked to stop the abuse.

We need to have fierce independence in a hearing, we need to have public hearings.

We need to have the findings of a Royal Commission which are taken more seriously than any other by governments and by the public.

Only a Royal Commission can provide the safe space for people with disabilities.

The main recommendation of the 2015 Senate Inquiry into violence and abuse and neglect against people disability was a Royal Commission.

I understand that today it may be easy for the government to simply say - well not easy - but the government may say, "Gee disability shouldn't be the subject of partisanship."

Now, I agree that it shouldn't be the subject of partisanship but it should not be to the subject of the tyranny of lowest common denominator.

People who have disability, as we speak, are subject to abuse and neglect.

Now I don't expect any Prime Minister or government can guarantee right here and right now the safety of people living with a disability in Australia.

But if we can't guarantee the safety and the freedom from abuse and neglect of people with disability, why on goodness’ sakes would we vote against a Royal Commission to protect Australians living with disability, to protect them from abuse and neglect.

This is why standing orders should be suspended and if we are unsuccessful today, we will not give up until we are successful.

Now I acknowledge the traditional owners of this land upon which we meet, I pay my respects to their elders, both past and present.

And in doing that, I should actually acknowledge a lot of the leadership that many of the big mining companies are doing in partnership with Aboriginal people, providing jobs and training and infrastructure to remote parts of Australia. It's a great, great success story in many cases.

I should also say thanks for the opportunity to speak at the lunch.

I am accompanied here by my Shadow Minister, Jason Clare and both of us have been tutored over the years by Martin Ferguson and Gray Gray amongst others.

I also want to say thank you because when I look at the Australian economy in the last six years, what growth we have is far less to do with government and far more to do with the decisions of mining companies to invest in capital expenditure, to increase the volume of the minerals which are then put on ships and sent to North Asia.

There is no doubt in my mind that our growth numbers would be very anaemic indeed without the contribution of mining in the last number of years. So I thank you for what you're doing and the long-term decisions you make.

You are important to our national wealth, your industry, you are important to economic growth.

And I recognise that Australian politics is at a bit of a water-shed because one of the most common observations I got across summer was that people are sick of the instability.

They want to stop the naked partisanship and just get on with looking after the people, and people want a long-term vision.

I care to believe that long-term vision will trump fear. We will find out if I am right in about three months.

But I want to use today as an opportunity to focus on the future, the positive.

From time to time, people masquerading as leaders in Australian politics tell us to be afraid of the future.

I do not share that view.

I do not share the view that the future is unknowable, incomparable and too difficult.

I understand of course we live in a time of global headwinds, of economic transition, of technology and automation, of changes in our region and transformation.

These are big challenges undoubtedly.

But for me, the obligation of good, stable, united government is not to run from the challenges but to build and prepare for it.

To create for Australia a new economic security. Encouraging and developing existing sources of prosperity and to find new sources, new high-value industries, new high-skilled jobs, as Vanessa was talking about in her introduction.

And for me and for Jason, for my team – mining is central to our future vision of Australia.

Now before I came to parliament, I spent decades representing miners - not necessarily the owners of mines but definitely the people who work in them.

That was an invaluable education.

I don't pretend to know what you know about mining. But I am sure and confident that compared to most Members of Parliament on either side of politics, I've been to more underground mines and open-cuts and I've been to diesel workshops and I've been to - I probably know more individual miners.

From  Tom Price to Newman, to the big Bauxite mines of Aloca, down south of Perth, Huntly and Wagerup. Across to Kalgoorlie, the goldfields, and then the Northern Territory from MacArthur River right up to the operations they have at Gove. To go underground at George Fisher to see what happens there, it's a privilege. To Cadia, to other goldmines and Cobar in western New South Wales. Of course, to Stawell and Ballarat.                       

There's the extractive industries of course. I don't know how much you consider them as separate organisations, your demarcations are confusing sometimes.

And of course, Tasmania - Beaconsfield, the Savage River, Queenstown.

I feel comfortable in this room because I appreciate not only the value of what you do, but I've seen it firsthand. I've seen the jobs that are created.

I see the value you have not just on a spreadsheet, but in terms of livelihoods and rural communities.

I know the value of what can happen in a productive workplace.

I've seen what happens when there isn't.

I've seen what happens when there is poor safety.

I've seen the importance of making sure that the jobs are continuing, like we see in the coal facilities.

I've seen underground when Pasminco had Broken Hill.

I've seen the longevity that can be delivered in mining and the resilient communities which are built upon it.

Mining is irreplaceable to Australia's economic success.

And I say that not as an alternative-Prime Minister, I say that as someone who literally has seen what you do.

It is something that we can do better than anywhere else in the world.

But indeed, my association with mining actually goes back a little further. My first boat person ancestor - other than the convicts - was an illegal arrival, John O’Shea.

He jumped ship in 1851 in the Port of Melbourne. He wanted to be a gold miner. I just think he was an unsuccessful gold miner. He set up a butcher shop but that’s not really for today, but that works at the Meat Council.

But when you think about the stories though, it leads to perhaps the bigger story.

Charles Rasp - many of you would know who he was, a humble boundary rider at the Mount Gipps Station. He saw the mineral promise that became Broken Hill.

Joining forces with local contractors, they sunk a small shaft.

The early results were not promising, but persistence paid off.

A syndicate of seven took out leases covering the whole of the Broken Hill.

That’s the story of BHP.

There was a German migrant who came to Australia to better his health.

Initially trained as a chemist, ended working in the outback, an eye for minerals, an understanding of how to prospect.

A lot of variables falling in to place.

It's the same kind of thing that happened when Paddy Hannan’s horse threw a shoe.

He stumbled into the bush at a place called Kalgoorlie, and came across a field of gold nuggets across the ground.

I don't know why my ancestors didn't go to Kalgoorlie.

Listen, I talk about this because it is part of Australian folklore. I also think it appeals a little bit in us still even now.

But the point is, that the true story of mining in Australia isn’t one of luck.

And the future of your businesses, the future of Australian mining and the future of our national economy will not be secured by luck.

I spoke before, I alluded briefly to some of the range of massive challenges occurring in the world.

And these challenges I submit to you today, demand a lot more from government than complacency dressed-up as caution.

It requires more than an economic policy of sitting back and hoping that something turns up.

We have to build for the future, to invest in our next wave of prosperity, and to help you find and uncover the new deposits, the new mines, the wealth and jobs of the future.

It is interesting that right now at the moment, 80 per cent of Australia’s current mineral production is from mines discovered prior to 1980.
We have not had a new Tier 1 deposit – those geological freaks of nature like Broken Hill, since 2005.

Yet, the rest of the world is discovering them at a rate of three a year.

I'm concerned that our share of global exploration spending has halved in the past two decades.

Our share of gold production is down from 13 to 8 per cent.

The challenge that too many of our 71 gold mines will close over the next two decades.

Nickle has halved to less than 10 per cent.

The Resources 2030 Taskforce noted the urgent need to replenish the pipeline of new projects

That’s because, as you understand better than anyone, it can take decades to turn a discovery into an exporting mine.

And because the demand for critical commodities of the future is booming.

We are in the top five holders of 14 out of 35 of these critical commodities which will power the economies of the future - which is enviable.

We produce 10 of the 16 commodities needed for the manufacture of solar panels.

We hold the largest reserves of lithium.

We mine every commodity required to build smart phones and the battery and storage technology of the future.

But when it comes to mineral wealth, two thirds of our country remain unexplored.

Covered by sand or saltwater lakes, inaccessible to legacy technology.

Now, I spoke about luck before. The real stroke of luck in the stories of Kalgoorlie and Broken Hill was that the deposits were on the surface or close to the surface.

If they’d been a few hundred metres below the surface they might still be there, unexplored and untapped.

Now thanks to pioneering work by the industry, the CSIRO, the Academy of Australian Sciences and Geoscience Australia, we now know that we can explore much more deeply below the surface than we could in the past with past technology.

This project, known as the UNCOVER initiative, it is world leading.

And given that two-thirds of our nation remains unexplored and the two thirds of the deposits undiscovered, it is a tipping point for the nation.

This is why I've chosen today to outline Labor’s Plan for Future Mines and Mining Jobs.

Today, Jason and I advise you of our plan to harness the full force of 21st century Australian skills and science to establish an underground map of where our future mines should be.

Mines that will export the commodities of the future.

Mines that will deliver the jobs of the future.

So if we are elected as the next government of Australia, Labor will establish an Australian Future Mines Centre.

An Australian Future Mines Centre to co-ordinate exploration work, lead scientific research, develop the technology necessary to explore under deep cover.

The centre will generate the knowledge and know-how to lift the success rate of minerals exploration possibly back to the rates and levels we enjoyed 30 and 40 years ago.

We will work with industry, the Australian Academy of Science, the CSIRO, and Geoscience Australia on the design of the centre.

We can, through our prudential budgeting commit $23 million in funding through the Australian Research Council's Special Research Initiative to make it a reality - and we can do that straight away upon getting elected.

We don't have time to waste in this country.

Where possible, we will seek co-funding from industry to kick-start collaboration across the sector in these areas which will give Australian mining an edge in the future.

Ideas like big-data analytics, machine learning, automation systems.

This technology will allow us to cost-effectively map the deposits of the two-thirds of Australia that remain unexplored.

These disruptive technologies are the promise of the future.

But if we want to convert these new technologies into new jobs, we have to get the detail right.

That’s why as part of the plan we will deliver a strategy for data and a skills road map, as was said earlier.

Holding the right data and turning it into the right information is the modern equivalent of holding the right to prospect, it’s just as valuable.

And because of the challenges of exploring deep underground, it will take multiple surveys using different technology to increase confidence of finding that next big deposit.

In many respects only government can do this co-ordination work, in partnership with industry.

Delivering the first cut of pre-commercial exploration data is an appropriate role for government.

Your industry invests a lot in Australia. It is only reasonable some of that investment is returned in modest research assistance, to provide this opportunity.

Now I do acknowledge the important work that is underway with Geoscience Australia in the exploring for the future program.

But it isn't just about picking the right targets is it.

It’s about making sure that Australians are getting the jobs in the future, and mining the commodities of the future.

We’ve got to get our people the right skills and qualifications not just to be part of this, but to be driving it.

That’s why, I and my Deputy Leader, Tanya Plibersek, we are launching a once-in-a-generation review of the post-secondary education system.

To make sure the next generation of Australians are getting the right skills and knowledge and information and problem solving capacities to compete and win in the new economy.

We will uncap university places, to ensure an extra 200,000 Australians have the opportunity to get a degree.

And in our first three years in government alone – we're going to pay the upfront fees for 100,000 TAFE places.

I think it is a travesty that Australia in the last five years, the number of apprenticeships in this country has declined from about 420,000 to 280,000.

We need tradespeople of the future to replace our ageing trades workforce.

But one number in particular I found when I talk to mining companies and I visit mines, which has me very deeply concerned and perplexed, is that the number of people enrolled to study mining engineering at one university has plummeted from 117 in 2013 to just 5 in 2017.

As you would have picked up, I'm a bit of a student of history, and whilst it's not an absolute guarantee of the future, it's a useful predictor.

And I'm very conscious of the great traditions of our mining schools of Australia, but we need to replenish it.

I want to see more Australians studying engineering but in particular, and I want to see existing engineers have the opportunity to re-train in mining engineering.

But for a mining superpower which we are, the fact that we are training so few mining engineers is baffling.

So today I am announcing a $2 million program, the government will pay 100 scholarships to enrol in mining engineering at Australian universities.

We will encourage people to become mining engineers.
You'll do the rest with them, I have no doubt about that. But I accept that there is a market failure and we are not training enough mining engineers.
We will help encourage more people, more young Australians to pursue a career in your industry and provide support for existing experienced engineers to diversify, re-skill and re-train in mining engineering.

And consistent with Labor’s commitment to equality for women in this country, half of these scholarships will be made available for women to go into mining engineering.

I don't pretend this is going to solve all the skills shortages in the future but we need to do something.

We cannot have our mining schools not training mining engineers, and I am absolutely focused on solving that problem and creating a pipeline of mining engineers, starting in our very first term.

Now just to make sure as you have access to smart and skilled workforce, the human capital, we also want to award you for investing in your own productivity.

So just a couple other points on what we're offering in terms of the taxation space, so that you can understand when you hear all the shoutyness of federal politics.

I just want you to hear this. We have an Australian Investment Guarantee policy - this will help you and reward you for investing in your own productivity.

We will allow any business upon election, to immediately deduct an additional 20 per cent of a new eligible asset worth more than $20,000.
So look at any depreciation standard you've got, add 20 per cent immediately on top of it if the item is currently assessable for depreciation, and it's above $20,000.

This is linking valuable taxpayer concession to rewarding you for future investment.
It will mean lower taxes when you purchase your plant and equipment,  when you invest in intellectual property to develop smarter and more efficient ways to run your businesses.

And when it comes to critical commodities – the minerals like lithium and cobalt. These are non-bulk commodities that will require new workforces to mine them in scale.
So that's their vision, it's going to be their ingenuity, their collaboration which will deliver the innovation which sets, and has traditionally set Australian mining apart.
That’s why our Future Mines Centre is so important – to co-ordinate and plan the work needed.

If we get this right and we reasonably should, it will add a whole new dimension to one our biggest exports – mining engineering, technology and services – METS.

METS accounts for almost 10 per cent of our total exports.

Six out of every 10 lines of code in the global mining industry are written in Australia.

This is a marvellous success which not enough Australians are aware of.

I am ambitious for this country to be a leader in the world, not the best tax deduction scheme for your imputation credits when you haven't paid income tax.

I am ambitious for us to be the best at innovation and export.

I am ambitious for us to be a world leader when it comes to harnessing technology and science for deep underground exploration.
I want us to be a world leader in upstream integration, in the minerals we mine in the products of the future.
That’s why, as part of a future White Paper process, we want to create a stronger, more productive link between the Australian resources sector and the Australian manufacturing sector.
See for me, it’s not enough to say that “we produce every metal needed to make the batteries of the future.”
Because we’ve also got the scientists to design and refine the battery and storage technology of the future.

And we have the skilled workforce to build and manufacture that technology here in Australia.

We are very committed to moving our people up the value chain.

Instead of shipping the minerals and materials overseas and buying them back at 30 to 40 times the price, we should do more of the mining and the building here in Australia.

Time and time again, previous generations have missed the opportunity to invest in Australian industry.

Time and time again, the moment has passed Australia by.

It's a little known fact that in 1945 we were the fifth largest manufacturer of aeroplanes in the world.

Now we wouldn't think we were capable of doing that, we missed that opportunity - Sweden, Brazil and others decided to go there.
So we have looked at other countries I think and wistfully said:
We could have done that. We could have been part of that.

How did that chance slip through our fingers?

Well this time, I am determined to get it right.
I understand that what that requires is stable politics. My side of politics has been stable for the best part of six years.
My Shadow Ministers have largely been in the same portfolios for that time - except for retirement.

I understand that there are people contemplating voting differently to what they have in the past because they are just over the instability - we will make that pledge.

But today what I endeavour to do is show this audience the respect of thinking through what is the useful collaboration and role for government.

I make it very clear that the next election - both sides of politics have the same taxation policies in terms of corporate tax rates.
I make it very clear that diesel fuel excise, despite what the Greens say, is not on our list.

I make it very clear that we have an Australian Investment Guarantee.

But more than even our taxation policy which is stable, I put to you that the challenge is people, it's always people in the end.

I'll never forget the gift of being involved in the Beaconsfield rescue, I'll never forget the gift of being in the big trucks of the Baulksite miners as they move around those mines.

I'll never forget the gift of going underground, be it at Broken Hill or visiting the open cuts of Cadia or indeed at Mount Isa.

I understand that at the end of the day your businesses are people businesses. We want to invest in their skills but I also think that we can help you with the future exploration which keeps Australia on top as a mining powerhouse.

And again, I would thank you for what you've done to keep the Australian economy afloat in particular over recent years.

I acknowledge the traditional owners of this land, I pay my respects to their elders past, present and emerging.

I acknowledge all the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples who have come from across Australia to share in this marvellous, marvellous event.

They don't often say that it is lucky to be the Opposition Leader but I am sure all of my colleagues could equally give a speech about Linda and today and I am lucky enough to be in that position to speak on behalf of all of your colleagues who love you very much.

There is one perk of being Opposition Leader which is not a well-known perk but, when you don't have many, you remember them. It is one of the peculiar conventions of the Parliament that I’m required to give my approval to each new portrait, along with other important people.

Now, of course, I thoroughly approve of this striking, evocative work. And I am looking forward to seeing the reaction of so many people who will see it for the first time, I think you'll be simply amazed. I congratulate the artist for capturing so much of Linda.

I am very happy that Linda’s portrait will have a place of honour here on the walls of parliament.

I am also even happier that Linda is currently a member of parliament and a member of our Caucus and, I hope, a future member of a Labor Cabinet.

But when you consider the journey behind the portrait, it is remarkable.

Linda spent the first ten years of her life here in Australia living as a non-citizen.

As a little girl at school, she was taught – in her words – that she was descended from people who were ‘as close to Stone Age as possible’.

She wasn’t counted in the Commonwealth census until the age of 14.

But imagine from today, from that background, her portrait will hang on the wall of the Commonwealth Parliament for as long as we have a Commonwealth Parliament.

But what is noteworthy I suggest to you is the journey between those two points and it is Linda’s story to tell. It’s a story of personal resilience, extraordinary resolve, a fighting spirit worthy of the character of the great Wiradjuri people.

But when I look at the portrait, I will see simply a story of hope. It is the hope that I’ve also witnessed in the eyes of First Nations children, when Linda explains to them she’s a shadow minister, a politician, a parliamentarian.

The hope this portrait will offer to all of the schoolchildren who visit our nation's capital and our nation's parliament, who will pass through the space her portrait occupies.

I also think the story behind this portrait carries a lesson for all Australia.

It speaks a broader truth of the self-defeating folly of discrimination.

The fact it has taken 119 years to unveil a portrait of Aboriginal woman as a member of parliament is embarrassing.

But the portrait will remind us that we are all - whoever we are and whatever our circumstances - that we are all collectively diminished by racism and prejudice.

Imagine the Labor Party without Linda Burney’s passion and idealism.

Imagine our parliament without her knowledge and skill and passion and love.

Imagine it without Patrick Dodson’s or Malarndirri McCarthy’s or Ken Wyatt’s.

Imagine an Australia that systematically deprived itself of the wisdom and culture and courage and insight of our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.

That’s what racism and prejudice and inequality in all its forms actually does, it robs us of our best selves. It robs us as a people, it robs us as a country.

It is why Reconciliation is Australia’s unfinished business.

There is a lot of discussion about character in the parliament but Closing the Gap is actually a test of our national character.

It is why a Voice for First Nations peoples, enshrined in the Constitution, it matters to all Australians.

This nation cannot hope to be the nation that we aspire to be, the nation we want our children to see in the mirror, as long as First Nations peoples battle the problems of disease, poverty, family violence, addiction, incarceration out of proportion to the rest of the nation.

It is fantastic that today is the 11th anniversary of the Apology. Tomorrow, the Closing the Gap report, will remind us of the scale of the task ahead.

But today, today is a fine moment because we celebrate a woman who in every inch of herself is living proof that the gap can be closed, that disadvantage is not inevitable.

Linda, I know I speak on behalf of all parliamentarians, in particular the Labor Party who are so fortunate to have you serving alongside us in the ranks, you are a wonderful source of advice to me, to us.

You are an inspiration to every one of your colleagues.

You are an inspiration to women and girls, to First Nations people and to all Australians.

You have achieved so much - but I firmly believe the best is yet to come.

This is my sixth Teal Ribbon Breakfast and every time we hear someone speak, we just realise that a lot of the rubbish we carry on with in this place just pales into insignificance. So, thank you very much for what I've heard today.

I acknowledge the Prime Minister has had to go, I acknowledge Catherine King, our health spokesperson and Tanya Plibersek. And in fact, all of the members of parliament who are here: Julie Bishop, Kelly O'Dwyer and everyone.

This is the first week of the parliamentary year, it's the early stages of the election cycle. There'll be plenty of arguments and debates here.

But I think that a moment like this does remind us, and your humility reminds us, that are there are a lot of big things going on and that loving your family and making sure that your health is intact is really fundamental to everything else.

I want to share a secret: I hate cancer, I hate cancer in all forms. My mother battled it, my precious cousin has battled it, friends have battled it.

I've stood by the bedside of Paula, when you battled it. I've seen how much that rocked not just you but your precious husband as well.

I think of friends who've died and in one case from ovarian cancer, diagnosed and, within 18 months, gone.

And I've since seen my friend's wife's children and they've grown up in that time. Twelve and fourteen years older than they were then and one of them has become a lawyer and another one has got married and got kids. And it isn't fair that they've never met a grandmother who's just an outstanding person.

So I hate cancer.

I accept that it's scary. You know, sometimes a really good speaker can give you the gift of trying to stand in the shoes of the speaker. And I couldn't stand in your shoes but you gave us that insight and it's just scary.

So that's why I was listening very carefully to what was said today and we welcome the government's announcements about breast care nurses.

I think there's more we can do with our nurses and cancer in other areas.

But the loudest message I picked up this morning, and I wouldn't dare not deal with before I sit down, is the question of research.

I get that we're capable of resolving these matters with enough resources, so I'm very pleased that we'll reaffirm the pledge which Labor has made.

But I accept - and I wrote your words down - "we want a bigger share". And I’m going to come to that in a moment.

I am pleased to say if my colleagues and I have the privilege to serve as the next government of Australia, we will provide $12 million to Ovarian Cancer Australia's national action plan.

This will help create a National Ovarian Cancer Registry, track diagnosis and treatment and help coordinate research.

We want to boost Australia's world-class bio-specimen initiative to improve the focus on prevention as well as cure and treatment.

It would fund three clinical trials for treatment.

And of course, it would be very important in that work of contacting people and getting them tested for the BRCA gene.

But I heard what you said about a bigger share - and the best way to have a bigger share is to have a bigger pie.

I make this promise to you: we want to see more money spent on healthcare.

That's not saying that people haven't tried to do this stuff in the past, but I accept the challenge you made to me. And that's what I thought the conversation really was: if you're fair dinkum, then we should put more money into it. That, of course, will allow for a bigger share.

The idea that different types of cancer have to compete for scarce resources isn't really the model that I think Australians want from our health system.

So I'm committed and I'm going to go away with my capable colleagues and start working out how we can create a bigger share for all, including your cancer and your cancer research.

Again, I'll just finish on this.

There'll be lots debated today, some very furiously and some people putting a lot of energy into it.

I have no doubt that in this week, the two speeches I heard that are most important were the two that immediately preceded me this morning.

Thank you for telling truth. Thank you for being so brave.

Thank you for actually helping some of us be less scared - because being scared isn’t what ultimately matters, it is what you do about it.

Fantastic to be back in one of my favourite parts of Australia and back on the fair dinkum thing, the Bill bus, a real bus.

For the next nine days I'll be working from Queensland, and I'll be working in Queensland, and I'll carry the great Labor story to many parts of Queensland.

Queensland needs jobs, not cuts. We need jobs, not cuts.

If Labor is to earn the privilege of serving and forming the next government of Australia, then we're going to need to win in Queensland. And we are going to need to outline our plan for every part of Queensland, from the suburbs to the regions, from the southeast corner right up to the far north of Queensland.

We understand in Labor, that where goes Queensland, goes the nation. And that's why we've got such positive plans for all Queenslanders.

Now, some Australians are still lucky enough to be on holiday, and most of us, hope we've had a break, but I want to share with you two experiences that I've had over the summer break. The two sentiments, the two ideas, the two propositions that Australians have advanced to me most commonly over the recent summer break.

The first statement, which wherever I went in Australia, I would hear, is that the Australian people, Liberal voters, Labor voters, Nationals voters, minor party voters, almost to a man and woman, have had enough of the current Australian Government. They’re over the shambles, they’re over the circus.

Australians would come up to me on the beach and they'd say, Bill, can we just have one Prime Minister for three years?

I've had some conservatives who come up to me and say, we don't agree with everything you're saying, but you, Labor, at least appear to be stable.

And I said this is our sixth January, that I've been Leader of the Opposition. I've got a good team.

People would come up to me and say you've got good candidates, you've got good Members of Parliament.

But the other thing they said, along with saying they're upset with the shambles and the chaos and the division, they've had enough of the cuts, they're over this Government.

And when you think about it here, in our own local community here in Forde, or any part of Brisbane for example.

They're over the fact that $160 million is being cut from Queensland hospitals. $160 million.

They're over the fact that $6 million has been cut from Logan Hospital, denying the people in this seat the basic care which they deserve and they've paid their taxes to get.

In Redcliffe, $4 million cut from the hospital, and if think that we're going to let anyone forget that in Caboolture Hospital they cut $2.9 million, well then the LNP have got another thing coming.

We are not forgetting and we are not forgiving the cuts to the hospital system in Queensland, and every other part of Australia.

And when they are not relentlessly cutting, or focused on their own internal division, I'd like a gold coin for every time between now and the election they are going to talk about us.

They've run out of their own ideas and they are just obsessed with us.

They don't know whether one day to criticise us or the next day to pop in and take our ideas.

Now, it is clear to me that this is a government in its sixth year, who has stopped leading, and they've stopped listening.

But I also want to reassure you that as just distracting as this car wreck of a government is, Labor will not be deterred from putting forward a positive political platform.

The people of Australia, the people of Queensland, they're sick and tired of just the negativity. They want to know what our plans are.

And this is why I am getting on the bus with so many of my team, because we want to talk not just about where we are at, but where we want this country to be, where we want this state to be.

People are craving stability, they're craving policies which focus on them, not ourselves.

And this is a very important and urgent time for Labor to be boarding the bus and talking about our plans for Queensland, as we will then do throughout the rest of Australia.

Because our economy is not working.

I said there were two things I heard over summer.

One is, when is this government going to go? But the second thing I heard over summer is that everything is going up except people's wages.

Everything is going up except people's wages.

And it is a problem. Our economy is not headed in the right direction.

It is not delivering for working class and middle class people in Australia.

Now if you're a billionaire in this country, there's never been a better time to be an Australian.

But everyday Aussies, everyday Queenslanders, are finding it harder and harder to not just get ahead, but to stay where they are.

Think about your family, think about your friends, think about your work mates, think about your neighbours.

We know that more and more Queenslanders, more and more Australians are living on the credit card from week to week.

They're having to dip into their household savings.

We know that living standards are going in the wrong direction in this country.

The cost of living, this is a government with no plan for cost of living.

Childcare costs, up 20 per cent. How do families afford it?

Energy prices right across Australia, up not down.

And when you think about the cost of healthcare, private health insurance in this country is in danger of becoming a luxury item because of the perpetual premium increases waved through by this soft 'do whatever the big private health insurers tell them' government that we've currently got in.

We've seen the freeze on the Medicare patient rebate, health costs in this country are up.

Think about it. Childcare, energy, back to school costs, healthcare costs, private health insurance. All of it, going up.

But not the wages, and not the pensions.

We're not seeing enough support for people who work every day, for people who have worked every day.

Now I said though, that not everyone's doing it hard.

Think about corporate profits in the last 12 months alone - corporate profits up 13.5 percent. That's six times the rise in wages.

Some people are doing very well in this country, but not most people.

When we think about it, we have a two-tier tax system in this country.

If you have enough money, paying tax becomes an option. If you can afford the best accountants and claim the biggest deductions, than you can opt out of the tax system that everyone else is in.

How can we live in a country where large multinationals, household names, pay no tax in Australia?

And we are seeing the high street and small business struggling.

What we're seeing is because wages aren't moving, cost of living is going up, household savings are being spent down - what we see is that wallets and purses are snapping shut.

Anecdotal evidence from the Christmas period - bad for retailers, the most important time of year for them.

And we've see a government who has been asleep at the wheel with the banks. I mean, if you want loan from a bank for a house, good luck.

But if a bank wants to be protected on 26 occasions from a Banking Royal Commission, then ring the LNP Government in Canberra.

How can we have a government in Canberra who wants to give a CEO of a large company a tax cut 16 times the value of the employees of that company?

How do we have a Government in Canberra who will fight to the death for the right of a property investor to buy their seventh property, when your kids can't buy their first property?

And I say to the millions of Australians who rely upon penalty rates when they go to work, to help make the margin, the difference, between quality of life and not having quality of life, one of the very first laws - if not the first law - we will pass if we are elected, is to restore penalty rates.

We will be talking about our positive plan for wages, for cost of living, for better schools and better hospitals right across Queensland.

The Government, this tired, ramshackle outfit, this coalition of reactionaries, uncomfortable in each other's presence, they have a one point plan for Australia: give the large corporations and the top end of town a tax cut and don't worry about anyone else.

Well, we've got a better plan for Queensland and we're going to talk about it.

We understand that when you get wages moving for everyday Australians, when you've got cheap and renewable energy, when you've got better schools and hospitals, when there's confidence, when you're looking after the pensioners and the farmers and the small business - when you're looking after the vast bulk of everyday Australians, that is a rising tide which lifts all boats.

It is the best plan for this state, and the best plan for this country.

Look after the people, better wages, better penalty rates, not bigger banks or bigger tax cuts for corporations.

This straightforward plan, it's a beauty of a plan, better hospitals and better schools, not bigger tax loopholes.

What we want is to have better pensions not bigger tax concessions for the top end of town, and we will fight for this platform right throughout Queensland.

This Government knows that the economy is not working in the interests of everyday Australians, or if they don't know, they should know, and it just proves how out of touch they are. But either way you cut it, they either don't know what's going on, or they do know what's going on and they just don't care.

This Government is a risk to the economic future of everyday Australians. And we have a plan which we will take - better schools, better hospitals, more renewable energy, make the economy work in the interests of working people.

Tackle cost of living, don't accept the status quo and growing inequality as the natural order of things.

This is a Government that should be ashamed of itself - that it's desperately trying to hang on for a matter of weeks and months because it knows that it is not fulfilling its promises to the Australian people.

It is not facing up to the facts in our economy.

Labor has a positive plan. Australians are over the shambles, they're over a government who won’t turn up to work in Parliament, they're over a government who can't stand each other, and they know that more than ever the need for change is urgent because the economy right now is not working in the way it should be for everyday Australians.

And I cannot wait to travel at least 1,400 kilometres over the next nine days, to 17 seats, we'll get as far as Townsville - if I can fit Cairns in I'm going to do that too - because everywhere in Queensland matters to me.

This is a good country, and we can be better, but we do our very best in this country when we look after each other, when we don't leave people behind.

We make sure that if your kids need to see a doctor, you can afford to.

That if your aging parents have been diagnosed with an early onset dementia, that you can get the package of support they require.

This is a good country that can do better when apprentices can get a start, that we actually buy Australian and we buy local and we look after our own people.

This is a good country that can do better when we've got moving wages, when we've got first home buyers able to enter the market, when we've got a fairer system for all.

And this story for 2019 starts right here in Forde, and it's going to travel up Queensland and to every part of Australia.

I want to thank our incoming President, Wayne Swan, for his work over the last three days, and of course our other chairs and I also want to acknowledge our National Secretary, Noah Carroll and the whole team at National Secretariat.

But, in particular, I would like to talk about a humble person. A modest hero. A person who Wayne alluded to.

Because all of what we see requires a whole lot of people behind the scenes to make this happen.

But we have one amongst us, who for 25 years, six National Secretaries, eight Labor Leaders, 10 National Conferences, this woman has held the show together.

Along with her small, loyal and dedicated band of supporters, her team, she managed to organise this conference twice this year, once in July and again for December.

And she’s also been ready for a federal election campaign since June.

Can I suggest that we bring Sandy Rippingale on stage.
Sandy did say she hates being up here, but you were all very kind to her.

Delegates

In closing, I just want to remind you that on the opening day of this convention I said that if we were win the next election, to form the next government of Australia, that I thought our biggest challenge and my greatest ambition would be to restore trust and faith in our democratic system.

In the last three days, so many of you, observers, supporters, delegates, you have made the effort to tell me you feel the same way as I do.

That you understand that our Labor mission is not just to win-back government but it is to rebuild faith in the purpose and the value of our democratic system.

To prove that a good, conscientious, united government with the right plans and policies can deliver a fair go for the Australian people.

And delegates, I have always believed that if we want the Australian people to put their trust in us, we need to put our trust in them.

We have to be honest and upfront: all the time, not just when it suits.

It’s why we have been bold in opposition and bold in the platform that we have endorsed in the last three days.

It is why we have put forward detailed reforms and very clear plans.

And we have been honest about how we will pay for our promises.

Because it's about respect.

We respect the Australian people.

We respect the intelligence of our fellow Australians.

We have faith in their sense of fairness, and we take people into our confidence.

We have endeavored to explain and will do so every day between now and the next election, where we see the people of Australia fitting in to the future of Australia, our vision of 2030 and beyond.

Put bluntly, I believe if we level with people, they will be level with us.

If we trust our fellow Australians, our fellow Australians will trust us.

So I say to everyone here in this hall, part of this great enterprise.

I say to the representatives of the media who have been covering this conference most diligently in the last three days.

But most importantly I say to millions of Australains, some of whom will be watching our matters on television, others who will read about our ideas in coming days and weeks and months.

I say this: we believe this nation needs a change. We believe Australia deserves a change.

My team and I understand that millions of our fellow Australians are counting upon us - we do not intend to fail or disappoint the Australian people.

We leave here today more united, more energised and more determined than ever.

We are ready to earn the trust of the people at the next election.

And we are ready to repay that trust as the next government of Australia.

Making a good country even better and restoring the fair go all round for all of our fellow Australians.

First of all, I’m pleased to report to this conference, as was just resolved, that if we are elected as the next Labor Government in our first 100 days, we will restore the Sunday and public holiday rates for 700,000 working Australians.

Delegates

In endorsing this chapter, I wanted to make it clear that this very important set of policies is not simply a re-run of the Hawke-Keating Accord.

Now there are lessons that we can, and we should, learn from that dynamic time.

One lesson is co-operation, consensus, working together, talking to each other. Getting people of different views in the same room, around the same table - that is the spiritin which we will approach our wages policy.

And we will start that process of bringing people together, unions, employers, the representatives of workers, the representatives of industry and small business and the sectors, we will start that process of getting the wages of Australia moving again from the very first week after the election.

And there is a second lesson of that time.

It's the lesson of the importance of having a wages policy.

A political party without a wages policy is horribly out of touch.

Out of touch with the real world. Out of touch with the real people.Out of touch with the real lives of the Australian people who make this country such a great country.

We can draw upon these two lessons, a wages policy and bringing people together but, what I understand is that we can not turn back the clock to 1983. We live in a very different economy in a very different time.
The world has quite literally changed, the labour market in Australia has changed.

Back then, when you finished a trade or a university qualification, you could walk into a full-time job with rights, not a revolving door of fixed-term contracts.

In 1983, 83 per cent of Australian workers were employed full time. Today, it’s down to 68 per cent and declining.

Or put another way, in 1983 there were one million part time workers, today it’s about four million part time and casual workers.

And if you look at the journey that the Australian workforce has been on in the past 35 years, there are 6.3 million more Australians who are in working than there were in 1983. But only 3 million of those jobs are full time.

We live in a time of the so called gig economy: Uber, Airbnb, Deliveroo, the internet itself, did not exist in 1983.

Right now in Australia, there's 1.6 million people here with some form of work visa or a visa that gives them temporary work rights,1.6 million people.

We see enterprise bargaining in retreat, the lowest level of ratification of agreements since the first year that enterprise bargaining was introduced.

Concerningly, award rates are now so far behind the market rates of pay that they belong to a different decade.

Industries are changing, whole industries have closed. I think about Ansett and Holden, the massive change in metal manufacturing and textiles.

I think about the fact that in 1983 at least we had ships on the coastal trade of Australia, carrying the Australian ensign.

But at an even deeper level, beyond the changes and the workforce and permanent jobs, the changes in technology and industry.

We live in a time which has seen the end of the old orthodoxy, that theory beloved of classical economists, that said supply and demand works in labour markets.

That if the labour market tightens, if the demand for workers goes up so will their wages go up.

But we are not seeing that now. We are seeing growth without wages growth.

We see rising corporate profits and we witness stagnating workers wages.

This is because of a two-class jobs system in this country, where jobs growth in this country, such as it has been, has been absorbed by the insecure, deregulated job market, the causal part time labour hire market.

And when the growth is absorbed in these jobs what that means is that these workers have no capacity as the demand for their labour increases to assert better pay and this is dampening the pay of all Australian workers.

And I want to put to you that this is one of the biggest economic challenges facing Australia.

Stagnant wages growth is bad for people, it is bad for business, it is bad for our economy and our society.

It is bad for family budgets and family savings.

It is bad for the demand in small businesses and the shopping centres in the high streets of regional and suburban Australia.

For too long in Australia, the Australia that is run by the Liberals and the Nationals, everything has gone up, except people’s wages.

I speak to close this chapter of our platform because wages policy is an issue of substance that goes to peoples’ standard of living.

Their quality of life, their capacity to pay the bills and plan for the future, to dream dreams.

Wages policy is an essential ingredient of a decent economy and a decent society.

You wouldn't talk about our economy without talking about infrastructure, or farmers or mining or small business.

But this government studiously ignores an essential ingredient of a decent economy, wages policy.

Wages policy is not an issue to be sidelined or disregarded.

It is not something that can simply left to the market taking us down, further every day, the road to an American style system.

Wages policy is the proposition that if you work hard you should not live in poverty.

If you work hard you should be able to aspire to a growing standard of living.

Wages policy is the aspiration and the essential ingredient to ensure that a fair go means something when you go to work.

Delegates, in my years at the Australian Workers Union, I was brought up in a tradition and a system that encouraged co-operation, negotiation, positive outcomes for both sides of the negotiating table.

Australian workers go to work and seek cooperation, not conflict.

They seek fair pay and they seek dignified work and a say in their work and they seek to be safe at work.

And they seek dignified work and a say in their work and they seek to be safe at work.

But collectively, I was raised in a tradition which said that our job was to strive for more productive workplaces and better pay and conditions.

But the rules have changed, most markedly in particular, in the last five-plus years of Coalition Government.

Today's system, under Liberal National Government does not encourage cooperation.

Enterprise bargaining, in its current form, is simply not doing the job for wages in this country.

It doesn't work for funded services.

It doesn't work for people who have little or no bargaining power.

It doesn't work for people at the end or the bottom of the supply chain.

It doesn't work for labour hire and casual workers.

And increasingly, it doesn't work for well-paid workers and their employers under collective agreements which have been negotiated in good faith over the last two decades, with give and take and greater productivity because even those who participate in enterprise bargaining are now at risk of being left stranded because the system now rewards wage cutting.

The system now rewards job insecurity, it rewards the commodification of the dignity of work.

We need a new system set up for the 2020s, to recognise the changes in our economy, learning the lessons of the past.

We need more focus on secure work, a better fairer definition of casual work.

No more use of that meaningless term, that contradictory term, 'permanent casual'.

No more going without pay or conditions for three months every year because your employer keeps you on those rolling fixed-term contracts.

And we need a new system which includes tougher laws on sham contracting and labour hire.

Multinational companies should not be able to obscure their corporate identity and deny people the proper conditions and access to compensation that they earn through their productive labour every day.

Under Labor, if you do the same job in a workplace, you will get the same pay.

Same job, same pay.

And delegates, working people have the right to be represented by a union in this country.

And this means that people should be able to access their union, that unions need to be uphold rights at work to call out everything from wage theft and exploitation to harassment and unsafe workplaces.

We will make sure that the laws that we create cannot be avoided, nor defeated, nor negated, nor ignored by multinational companies and their high-priced lawyers.

We will focus our industrial relations laws to protect workers’ safety and their rights, not to create conflict, not to pursue vendettas and not to stage police raids for the benefit of TV cameras.

This is Australia, not a tin pot dictatorship. And that is why we will abolish the ABCC and the Registered Organisations Commission.

And I tell you something else that's changed since 1983, the proportion of women in Australian workplaces.

And we should be every day grateful that what economic growth we've had in terms of household wealth has been delivered in no small part, not just by superannuation but by the fact that the women of Australia are working in numbers more than ever.

And therefore modern Australian workplaces, need to recognise and deliver equality for the women of Australia.

No more pay discounts because you are a woman.

We've already heard in this session, Tanya Plibersek and Brendan O'Connor outline another fantastic policy this morning.

A Labor Government will finally recognise a fact that all of us know to be true: the work traditionally done by women in predominantly feminised industries, industries which employ a large proportion of women as a total of their workforce, this important work is equally valuable and equally important as the work traditionally done by men in male-dominated industries.

And that therefore, these workers, these Australian women who work should be equally compensated for their contribution, as is long overdue.

The people I speak of, for example, include early childhood educators, our aged carers and the people driving the National Disability Insurance Scheme. The pay and recognition and training that they deserve.

And for the survivors of family violence, for women battling all of the other legal and logistical challenges that that brings, trying to pick up the pieces and stay safe.

Labor will write into the law of Australia, the law of the land, 10 days of paid domestic violence leave.

In closing this chapter, I say to you delegates, the Liberals and the Nationals always want to say the election is just about me and the other guy.

There was the first guy, the tough guy, he said that.

Then there was the second guy, the rich guy, he said that.

There's the third guy, the advertising guy, I think he said it the other day too.

But we understand here, and Australians understand throughout this nation, elections are not about two individuals.

They are about the people of Australia.

So when we submit this wages policy, as indeed with all of our policies, we will be asking the Australian people for their judgment.

Their judgment on these questions:

Who is the best party to make sure that bargaining and wages rises start happening again?

Who is the best party to champion equal pay?

Who is the best party to fight for secure, safe, decent work?

Who is the best party to lift the wages of working Australians?

Who is the best party to stand up for middle class and working class Australians and their families?

And delegates, as in this chapter and all of our platform, I submit to you that it is the Labor Party who is the best party to champion these issues.

It is only our party and our movement who seek to govern for all, who seek to govern in the interests of all.

It is only our party who believes in treating unions with respect, ensuring they have a rightful place in negotiating.

It is only Labor who seeks to govern for working Australians and for all Australians.

I'd like to acknowledge the traditional owners of this land, and I pay my respects to elders past, present and emerging.

Delegates

It was at our National Conference in 2007, the Australian Labor Party honoured Gough and Margaret Whitlam with life membership.

In 2009, we bestowed the same tribute on the great Bob Hawke.

And today, it is my privilege to propose that this Conference honour three remarkable Labor Prime Ministers with life membership.

I refer of course to Australia’s 24th Prime Minister, Paul Keating - he sends his regards to you too today. He was a leader and a reformer of courage and imagination - a hero of the true believers.

I refer also to Australia’s 27th Prime Minister, Julia Gillard - she too sends you her regards. She was a fierce champion for the opportunities of education, she is a continuing inspiration for women and girls.

Delegates

We look forward to reflecting on Paul and Julia’s achievements – and presenting their memberships in person on another occasion.

But today, I'm very pleased that we are joined by two honoured guests: Australia’s 26th Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd - and his wife Therese Rein.

Kevin, you led Labor back into government after 11 and a half years in the wilderness.

You signed Kyoto and abolished WorkChoices.

And you saw the storm clouds of global recession and you - and our National President Wayne Swan - and your Labor government ensured that Australia actually grew through that crisis, when every other economy faltered.

You had the vision to begin a first-rate, fibre National Broadband Network.

Your government had the Labor values to deliver record investments in affordable housing, in public hospitals, and the single biggest increase in the age pension, lifting one million pensioners out of poverty.

You had the understanding of our Australian identity and independence, to elevate the importance of the G20, to pursue for our nation a seat at the table in the councils of the world.

And you had the compassion and decency to face historical truth, to recognise the wrongs of the past and to say Sorry to the Stolen Generations.

And while we were defeated at the 2013 election, it was your campaigning skills that ensured that we entered Opposition as a strong, viable electoral fighting force.

And the reforms you made to our party rules that year in Balmain, have helped instil such stability and unity of purpose in our team.

Kevin, today we are proud today to honour your nation-building contribution to the Australian story and your Labor legacy.

Delegates.

None of us who are called to serve in public life could do what we do without the patience, the support, the love and forbearance of our families and our partners.

Therese, you and Kevin and your children know the cares and burdens of high office, take a hidden price, the toll it can take on a family.

Yet Therese, you brought such zest and joy and drive to your role in the public life of the nation.

On a very personal note, I will always be forever grateful for the interest and insights you took through your own family's experience, your own passion to empowering people with disability, ensuring they had access to the dignity of work.

Therese, we all thank you - for the contribution you have made in your own right, the service you have given, to your family, to our Labor family and to the nation.

Delegates

It’s always been the Labor Party that makes the political heroes in this country.

At our best, we are a movement focused on the future - but as Australia’s oldest continuous political party we have always revered our traditions and we take inspiration from our struggles in the past.

And we are better, we are stronger, we are more confident and more complete when we extend to our former leaders and legends the respect they deserve, the gratitude they have earned.

Labor can do more, indeed Australia can do more, to recognise the contribution of our past leaders - and to call upon their wisdom, their talents and their capacities in the continued service of our country.

There has been a lot of pain.

But today, I say to the conference, it is time for healing, to make peace with our past in the same way we are united about our future.

Our members and supporters - and more importantly, millions of Australians, they want to see us, Labor get this right.

To everything, there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven.

And the time for recognition that what unites us is greater than what divides us has come.

So in the spirit of unity and solidarity and gratitude and respect.

I move that the party recognises the extraordinary contribution that Labor Prime Ministers make to Australia and to the Labor Party by bestowing life time membership on former Labor Prime Ministers –

And that this conference acknowledges the presence of our 26th Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd and his wife, Therese Rein - and their strong and enduring contribution to the nation and the modern Labor Party.

We have another big day ahead of us, another packed agenda.

I can see President Swan is already warming-up his trusty time-keeping arm.

Now, today Tanya Plibersek will be leading our discussions on Chapter 7.

That’s a policy area which goes to core of Labor DNA and the heart of every parent’s hopes for their children, and indeed what we want for all children in Australia, which is a world-class education system.

I’m really pleased that Amanda Rishworth will be moving an amendment today to the Platform to enshrine Labor’s once-in-a-generation reform to early childhood education.

Two years of preschool or kindergarten for every Australian child.

This is world’s best practice, it is Labor policy and if we form government we are going to change the lives of future generations of Australians.

Then later on, Albo and Michelle Rowland are going to talk about nation-building:
better public transport – and more carparks at suburban train stations upgrading our ports and our airports safer regional roads
The best infrastructure and the best digital infrastructure: Labor wants an NBN that actually delivers for households and for small business.

Then South Australia’s own Don Farrell will take us through Chapter 10, including Labor’s plan for a real National Integrity Commission, to rebuild trust in Commonwealth Institutions.

And a pledge for better public services, kept in public hands.
We’ve seen five years of Liberal cost-cutting, selling, outsourcing, privatising, shrinking, putting in consultants. It’s been proven time and time again, privatisation is not the solution, it is the problem.

And then we go to Chapter 9. It takes as its title Labor’s oldest promise ‘A Fair Go for All’, and there’s some pretty important issues in this chapter.

As we’ve already mentioned this morning, it includes a fairer deal for our First Nations Peoples.

And as I said yesterday, it means rescuing the National Disability Insurance Scheme from corporatisation and death-by-a-thousand-consultants.

This chapter speaks to our timeless commitment for equality for all Australians, regardless of their sexual identity, their faith or heritage.

And it also deals with that enduring Labor idea that we measure our society not by how the wealthiest and most powerful are going, but how we treat the most vulnerable amongst us.

Because we have never condoned the complacency that another Australian’s misfortune is someone else’s responsibility.

So delegates yesterday I said NewStart should lift people back into work, not punish them in poverty.

If you’re on the minimum single rate for NewStart, that’s a fraction under $40 a day.

Now not everyone is on that rate, it’s a complex system, there are lots of different payments that interact with each other.

But for a lot of jobseekers trying to survive on $40 a day – that’s not enough really for a bus ticket to get to an interview, or a presentable set of clothes or the phone credit or access to internet to look for opportunities.

We know there is dignity in work and we want every Australian who’s able to know the dignity of work to be able to do so.
But as it stands, our system makes it too hard for some people to even get to the starting line.

We understand the theory that people pull themselves up by their own bootstraps. But we understand that you have to own a pair of boots in order to be able to pull yourself up by the bootstraps.

So I can confirm and announce to this conference, that if we are elected, a Labor Government will initiate an urgent review into the inadequacy of NewStart payments – the first in a quarter of a century. We will ensure this review is completed within 18 months.

I acknowledge the work already of the conference and delegates to have us arrive at this position.

We believe in the greatness of the Australian safety net. We want to lift everyone’s aspirations up, but we are the great safety-netters of Australian politics.

We understand that every Australian has the right to good health and to a good job.

And of course delegates, Chapter 9 of our platform also deals with our policies on border security and refugees.

And whilst there will be debate over the course of the day, I wanted to take this opportunity this morning to say to all of you, I sincerely respect your right to put your arguments and make your case.

I appreciate that everyone in this room comes to this issue with a passion that is genuine and deep.

And I am sure as we did at Conference in 2015, we will engage in a constructive debate which produces the right policies for our party and more importantly for our nation.

Delegates, my own view on this is straightforward.

We cannot and we must not and we will not allow the criminal people smuggling syndicates to get back into business.

But let me say, it is not a crime to want to come to this country.

All of us other than our First Australians came here from somewhere else.

It is not a crime to want to come to this country. But it is a crime to exploit vulnerable people, to put them in dangerous and unsafe vessels, and have them drown at sea.

We cannot, we must not and we will not permit the re-opening of their trade in human desperation and the drownings and the irreplaceable loss of life that it brings.

This requires:

Rigorous security, character and health assessments throughout both our humanitarian and general migration programs
It means pursuing regional resettlement.
It means turning back boats where it is safe to do so.
And maintaining offshore processing
But also in our party, we understand that keeping our borders secure and keeping the people smugglers out of business, should and has never meant leaving men, women and children to languish for years and years in indefinite detention, in sub-standard facilities and unacceptable conditions.

It has never meant allowing people’s mental and physical health to deteriorate whilst under direct or indirect Australian care.

It has never meant fighting every step of the way against medical advice which says that more needs to be done to treat people.

I believe that Australia can meet our international humanitarian and legal responsibilities without compromising our national security or our commitment to strong border protection.

I wonder sometimes even deep down, that some of our opponents know this to be true. That it is not one or the other - strong boarders or indefinite detention.

Because after all, on the current governments watch there are 800 asylum seekers in Australia who have been transferred here, eventually for medical treatment.

That is far more than remain on either Manus or Nauru right now, this has already happened.

But have no doubt, that our opponents will never let the truth get in the way of the pursuit of low political advantage.

We saw that when they were in Opposition, when this current Prime Minister was the spokesman for Immigration, and the Liberals decided to team-up with the Greens political party to vote against the arrangements with Malaysia.

Never forget that over 600 people drowned on their way to Australia, after that decision.

The Liberals did not vote against the Malaysia arrangement because they thought it wouldn’t work. They voted against it because they were afraid it would work.

They decided that they would rather have the slogan, they would rather weaponise the issue, than solve the problem.

And we saw a recurrence of this behaviour again in the very last week of parliament.

The government relying on Pauline Hanson to run down the clock in the Senate rather than be seen to help a handful of sick children on Nauru get the urgent medical attention they need.

And every time you see the government Ministers on television telling lies about Labor, they are doing the dirty work of the people smugglers.

The Liberals are acting as spruikers for the criminal syndicates. Every time they get up and say that there will be a change in terms of boarder security they are signaling criminal syndicates to try their hand again.

They should be ashamed.

They know what they do and they still do it.

If we are elected, Labor will offer policies that are strong, compassionate and sustainable.

We recognise the global context.

Around the world, one person becomes displaced every 20 seconds

Nearly 70 million people have been driven from their homes

Many will not find permanent safety, the United Nations reports that in some cases there is a third generation of children being born into displacement.

This is an issue of a most enormous scale and complexity, no one country can hope to fix it on its own - but Australia can do better.

So, if elected we will look to take-up New Zealand’s offer to resettle refugees from Manus and Nauru by immediately negotiating an agreement on similar terms with that, that has already been negotiated with the United States.

And today I am pleased to announce that if elected we will commit $500 million over the next five years to support the important work of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees.

This funding will directly improve orderly, regional processing and resettlement in the region and countries closer to where refugees originally come from.

This funding will speed up legitimate settlement pathways, it will deny people smugglers a product to sell.

If we are elected, I will seek the immediate advice from the Chief of the Defence Force, the Department of Home Affairs, ASIO and other relevant agencies about our state of preparedness to disrupt people smuggling operations before people depart.

A Labor Government will triple the number of Australian Federal Police Officers working overseas in co-operation with other countries, to stop the people smugglers at their source, to prevent people even contemplating getting on that unsafe vessel in the first place.

And finally delegates, along with our responsible international role where Australia should of always been, along with our commitment to strong borders, Labor will build on the proven success of the existing Community Sponsored Refugee Program.

This means:
state and local governments community organisations businesses and unions and faith-based institutions
We’ll be able to sponsor humanitarian entrants into Australia, and support the economic and social integration of refugees into communities.

We will seek to expand this scheme from 1000 to 5000 places, and to be clear this would be in addition to the existing humanitarian intake, not instead of it.

So we will take more refugees as part of our migration mix, we will make sure that it is a safe process.

Our approach is both more practical and more affordable.

We're not afraid of immigration in this country, immigration has been a success in this country. Skilled migration, family union and indeed refugees.

What we will do with our sensible, strong yet compassionate approach is we will ensusre that people go to where they are needed, wanted and welcome in this country in a neighbourly way.

Labor will empower local communities, country towns, business and community groups. If country towns and regions want to sponser humanitarian intake well it is not the job of the Commonwealth to get in the way.

This will make sure there is no cost to the taxpayer.

Our approach, Labor’s approach: strong, compassionate and sustainable.

I want to rekindle Australia’s reputation as a good international citizen when it comes to dealing with these complex humanitarian challenges.

You can have secure borders and you can living up to our humanitarian obligations, you just require leadership in this country.

We can keep the people smugglers out of business but we will most certainly if elected, keep faith with our enduring Labor values.

Proud at home and proud overseas, confident that we can work together as a community and as a nation, listening to each other, getting this right.

Being a welcoming nation, being consistent and strong. This is the Labor mission.

I look forward to the debates today.

I too would like to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet, and I pay my respects to elders past and present.

When we think about where we sit in this hall, in this city, our nation stands on what is, was and always will be Aboriginal land and we acknowledge that today.

I was listening to Pat Dodson, as I know this whole gathering was. And like all of you I want to thank him him for his words, thank him for his wisdom but I also want to thank him for making a decision, more than two and a half years ago, to join our Labor family as our Senator for Western Australia.

Pat is like a lot of truly modest people. They don't always realise how much they are loved by others.

And to all of you here in the Labor family and movement, and to Australians watching today, when Pat speaks in the Parliament and when he speaks in our caucus and our meeting rooms, he has this almost magical effect of making the rest of us feel better about ourselves. And that has been a journey of teaching and learning that Pat has been on his whole life.

I first met Pat 14 or 15 years ago when I was with the Australian Workers Union, and he took me through the Kimberley and to Fitzroy Crossing and he showed me parts of Australia that I didn't realise existed.

And I remember thinking back then, wouldn't it be good if this outstanding leader, a leader of all Australians, could make it through our Labor process and end up as one of our Senators.

I wasn't quite sure then how that would happen, but it has. And Pat joining his story with the Labor story enhances and enriches the Labor story.

Thinking about his journey and his teaching of all of us, I went with our Caucus Committee, our ATSI Caucus Committee, Warren Snowdon the local member, we visited Katherine, in the Northern Territory, where Pat spent some of his young years.

And he took me along a road, Fourth Street, and he pointed to scrub near where he grew up, in the house he grew up.

And he explained to me that in 1960, in his lifetime, his beloved sister took him from the house and hid him in the scrub because welfare were coming down Fourth Street to take the children away and to send them out to Croker Island.

And then he told me about his first night, the next year, when he went to boarding school in Casteron, a very well regarded school - a lot of champion footballers. Pat said he was a Collingwood six-footer, which means not quite.

But he did tell me about his first night there, which perhaps is not as amusing.

Because of his skin colour, his was the only bed in the boarding school without sheets on it.

Then he comes back from school to visit his family back up in Katherine. There was a 'rights for whites' meeting, as if the white people of Katherine were being put upon.

Now, he says that we was approached by the local Jawoyn people and they said: "You've been to school, you go and tell them why they're wrong."

Pat said, "I'll do a couple more years of schooling and then I'll tell them why they're wrong."

These are just little snippets of an amazing story, and the reason why I perhaps focus on his story is this: it really shouldn't have taken us 48 National Conferences to develop a Reconciliation Action Plan. But we have one now.

And we do so in part because of our First Nations’ caucus.

How lucky are we, all of us as Australians, to have leaders from our First Nations’ people like Pat, who came through the experience.

Stories which children today would think would be more akin to a Mississippi or the stories of civil rights in other parts of the world, but it's in our own country, in the lifetime of own people and the problems still persist right now.

How lucky are we that we have the Father of Reconciliation, seeking to be part of the next Labor Government.

How lucky are we also that he’ll serve alongside that remarkable Wiradjuri woman and leader, Linda Burney.

Linda has explained to us in the Parliament that she wasn’t counted in the Commonwealth Census until she was 14 years old.

But at the next election, if things go the way we hope, from someone not counted in our census she will be a cabinet minister in a Commonwealth Government.

And of course we’ve got our outstanding senator for the Northern Territory here with us on the stage. A Yanyuwa woman, Malarndirri McCarthy.

Anyone else in our caucus will tell you this, not only does she bring vibrancy and energy to our political discourse, she brings a marvellously fresh set of eyes to the old problems.

Now, it has taken our party the best part of 120 years to have three First Nations’ members in our caucus.

But sometimes at these conventions and in the gatherings of the ALP, the progressive party of Australian politics, there are moments which are even greater than the sum of the parts.

And I feel this is such a moment.

The fact that our party recognises and wants to be the party of choice for First Nations’ people, we understand the only way we can even begin to contemplate such a privilege, is by ensuring that in our ranks, we do have our First Australians.

Now some of the state parties have been very good and they have led the way, some perhaps need to do more work. But we are here now.

And when you look at our movement's contribution to equal rights and to Reconciliation, we can hold our head up - not exclusively - but we have been in the lead more often than not.

It's been ten years since Kevin Rudd delivered the apology to the Stolen Generations, an act of Labor leadership and national healing.

The apology though wasn't just the recognition of the wrongs of the past, it was a promise to do better in the future.

And later today, our discussion in our discussion of chapter 9, we will talk about our commitment to the unfinished business of Reconciliation:

Enshrining a voice for First Nations’ people in the Constitution.
Establishing a Makarrata Commission, for truth-telling and treaty.
And genuine partnership and progress on Closing the Gap.

Simply put, Labor believes that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples deserve equal opportunity and an equal share in our nation's future.

The equal right to a great education and a good job.

The equal right to be safe in their home and their community, to be healthy in their life.

And an equal right to justice in the courts of the land.

And when we say this, we reject unequivocally the notion that by closing the gap we are somehow giving a special advantage to our First Australians. Right now, our First Australians do not start a equally in life - we are just redressing an imbalance.

And I say to those who complain about policies which want to close the gap: why are you so scared by providing an equal go to people who do not have an equal go to start with.

So we will recognise above all else, that these solutions and policies have to be authored and owned by First Nations’ people themselves.

We must, and we will, focus on local empowerment, on the principle of community control.

The Reconciliation Action Plan that we launch this morning is about what we can do to continue to improve our culture and our structures as the party for the advancement for First Nations’ people.

This plan is not a nod to good intentions, it is not a tick-box exercise. It is a set of overdue concrete steps and clear goals.

We want to see:

More First Nations’ people as members of our party
More First Nations’ people as members of a parliament and as senators.
And more First Nations’ people enrolled to vote, to make sure that their policy priorities are national political issues.

We want to deliver and make Labor the party of choice for the First Australians but we need to earn that right.

So, delegates, for me - and I'm sure for all of us here - the First Nations’ members of our parliament and our party are simply an inspiration.

I acknowledge also the Reconciliation Working Group, the support and leadership of the National Executive, Karren Mundine and Reconciliation Australia who have worked to put this document together.

And finally, I'd also like to give a shout-out to the artist, Elizabeth Close sitting up in front of us. We sometimes get a lot of speakers up the front but not a lot of artists…of sorts.

So, we all have a part to play, from members of parliament, to branch members, to union delegates and to volunteers.

Reconciliation is Australia's unfinished business.

Friends, I know these people are well intentioned but the only people they are helping is the current government of Australia.

And I would say to everyone gathered here that I’ve waited as Opposition Leader for the next election, for five years and two months and if I’ve got to wait a couple more minutes, well I just will.

Alright, I think because we have got a good schedule and there are a lot of people here and I do acknowledge people have got a right to protest. But you have got to ask yourself when you see these protests, who is the winner? It is the Coalition.

And what we are going to do as Australia's oldest and continuous progressive political party, is we will not be deterred because our eyes on the prize of a better and fairer Australia.

We have had two protests, and goodness knows what the current Prime Minister will do to try and upstage it.

Anyway, I love national conference.

We have been coming here and doing national conferences since 1900 and it is because we are the party upon whom the eyes of the nation are focused for progress.

So, thank you all very much for coming here today.

I have to say about Tanya Plibersek, and we saw her exercising that velvet strength for which she is very well known for.

Tanya, you are a true friend and an outstanding Deputy Leader and you will be a brilliant Deputy Prime Minister.

And I have to say, working alongside you, indeed working with everybody in our talented and united Labor team for more than five years now has been a remarkable privilege.

Thank you, Tanya. Thank you, to every member of my parliamentary team.

I acknowledge the traditional owners of the land on which we meet, I pay my respects to elders past, present and emerging.

And in this first hour of the first day of our 48th conference, let our party re-dedicate ourselves to the unfinished business of Reconciliation.

Let us pledge to take the Statement from the Heart, into our hearts.

And if I’m elected Prime Minister, in my first week, I and my team will sit down with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders.

To talk about Closing the Gap, in genuine partnership.
To talk about truth-telling and treaties.
And to talk about Labor’s first priority for constitutional change: a Voice for First Nations people in the Constitution.

Now, delegates, Labor Conferences are unique: they are open, they are democratic and they do matter.

And only our party does this.

The Liberals host those awkward high teas where they resolve to sell the ABC.

The Greens, they assemble in their secret tree-house, exhibiting all the qualities of a cult except leadership.

But we gather and meet as a party, as a movement, as true believers in a cause.

And ever since that very first Labor conference – way back in 1900 – these gatherings witness real passion, genuine debate and the decisions that we make here, define our party, they reflect our values.

We should take pause and remember, at our last conference, we set a target of 50 per cent women in our federal parliamentary party, by 2025.

And, as Senator Wong reminded me, it was here in South Australia, the first state in the nation to give women the vote, the first place in the world where women could run for parliament.

I’m particularly proud to say if we win the next election, our Labor Government will be the first in Australian history with 50 per cent women in the parliamentary ranks.

Friends, these conferences are not just about modernising our party, they are about changing our country, changing our nation for the better.

Over the next three days, the eyes of Australia are upon us.

With the Liberals languishing in their sixth year of government and onto their third Prime Minister, Australians in greater numbers are looking to Labor like never before.

Looking to Labor for unity and looking to Labor for stability.

And looking to Labor for our vision for the future, our plan for the fair go.

Friends

Our Labor mission begins with building an economy that works in the interests of everyone.

A strong economy with a skilled workforce, where businesses have the confidence and incentive to invest and grow and employ, including a 25 per cent tax rate for 99 per cent of all businesses.

A fair economy where the middle class and working class people get their rightful share of the national wealth, including our bigger tax refund for 10 million working Australians.

And a growing economy where we build upon what Australia does best, including new investments in infrastructure, tourism, advanced manufacturing, defence industry, rail and renewable energy.

Our plan for a stronger, fairer, growing economy is right for the times because our nation is doing it tough.

Our nation’s economic growth has slowed
Living standards are stagnating
Wages growth is at record lows.
More and more people are dipping into their household savings to pay the bills
And inequality is eating-away at our prosperity

Yet this government pretends that Australians have never had it so good.

We live in a world of rapid and dramatic industrial and technological and environmental change.

Yet this government presents no energy policy for the people, no climate policy for the future.

No plan for skills and training but cuts.

No plan for wages at all.

Just when Australia needs policies for the future, the Liberals are mired in the past. This government’s single obsession is themselves.

And our current circumstance in the nation is not just a government of economic incompetence, environmental apathy and social irresponsibility – it is much more than that.

It is a discount on our ambition, it diminishes our imagination and devalues our hopes.

It drives a wedge between the generations. It rips up that covenant of trust that each successive generation will have regard for the next.

It polarises our nation, it disconnects us, divides us.

When I hold my town hall meetings, I can hear it in people’s voices, I can witness it in their eyes.

They’re working hard, and trying their best but they can’t figure out what’s happened to their country.

They feel like that no matter what they do, the fix is in and the game is indeed rigged.

Our fellow Australians who drive hours every day, to insecure work in three different jobs, earning less than they deserve, being paid less than they’re owed and yet paying more tax than a multinational company.

Families are loading-up the credit card at the end of every fortnight to pay the bills.

People are being ripped off by power companies.

Driven out of private health insurance by private health insurers increasing the premiums.

Ripped off by dodgy banks and the big bosses.

And people being let down and ignored by their government, you know who I speak of.

Teenagers who can’t find an apprenticeship, mature-age workers who can’t get a look-in.

Farmers and rural communities battling drought - but  buried in paperwork and red tape.

Small businesses burdened with a second-rate NBN.

Pensioners and veterans treated like second-class citizens, made to wait months for modest entitlements you’ve paid taxes for your whole life.

Yet this government can find half-a-billion dollars in half-an hour for well-connected private foundations.

There are school children who can’t understand why it’s so hard for the so-called adults in government to recognise that climate change is real and the need to do something urgent.

There are people right now in our communities, financially ruined by the cost of cancer treatment, or who can’t find aged care for a parent diagnosed with dementia.

These are Australians on the wrong side of inequality, cut-off from the fair go, isolated from the promise of our nation.

And for our fellow Australians, politics is just another part of the problem: unhelpful, irrelevant, out-of-touch with their daily lives.

This is why, in a very real sense, our opponents at the next election are not just the Liberals and the Nationals, One Nation or the Greens.

Our deeper opponents are distrust, disengagement, scepticism and cynicism.

Our Labor mission is not just to win-back government, it is to rebuild trust in our very democracy, to restore meaning to the fair go.

Around the nation, we must breathe new life into an idea that we gathered here in this hall hold as an article of faith, the idea that government has the power to bring meaningful progress into people’s lives.

This is why we are committed to a real National Integrity Commission, with proper powers, to rebuild trust in our Commonwealth institutions.

It is why we have rejected a small target strategy. It is why I and my team have built a bold and detailed policy agenda for the nation.

A program for the next decade, not just the next election.

Wherever I travel, the Australian people want to hear a plan for the future. And Labor will present a vision of social and economic progress for the 2030s, that the Australian people are desperately crying out for.

It will be a plan at all times answering the question: are we handing a better deal onto our kids.

And our plan begins with a once in a generation reform to early childhood education.

Delegates, under a Labor Government, every Australian child will have access to two years of preschool or kindergarten.

Fifteen hours a week, 40 weeks a year, for every three year old and four year old in our nation.

All the experts tell us that 90 per cent of a child’s brain develops before the age of 5.

And everywhere from the UK, France and Norway to China, South Korea and New Zealand, universal preschool for 3 year olds is the norm.

I say to you, that if this is the world's best practice, and it is, when it comes to our kids, Australia should never settle for anything less than the best for our kids, and Labor will not settle for less than the best.

And I say to our early educators, the first people with whom we trust our children outside the family, we hear you, we understand. You should be trained and paid like the skilled professionals they are.

At long last, we will pay early childhood educators what you deserve.  That’s Labor’s promise.

Delegates, I am the son of a great teacher, I’m a parent to three amazing children.

And if I’m elected Prime Minister, I want every Australian child to get a great education at a great school.

No matter what their parents earn, no matter where they live.

Every school should teach the basics well: reading, writing, science, maths and coding.

Every child should have the chance to try art and sport and music and drama and camps.

Every child should get the individual attention they deserve and need to flourish.

And every Australian school child should be safe, safe from bullying and discrimination in the playground and online.

So a Labor Government will put in the money and resources and teacher training to make this a reality.

Under a Labor national government, no ifs, no buts. Nothing on the cheap. No more blaming the teachers, no culture wars, no obsessing over the number of times Captain Cook is mentioned in the curriculum.

Our promise is just a quality education, for every Australian child. That’s Labor’s promise.

Delegates, you understand that in the next four years, nine out of every ten new jobs will need either a university degree or a TAFE qualification.

And I want ten out of every ten young Australians to be prepared for that economy and for those new jobs.

So Labor will uncap university places, meaning that in the next decade alone, another 200,000 children and adults from the regions and the suburbs can become the first in their family to get a degree.

This is what Labor governments do. Labor values open the doors of higher education to everyone who studies hard and chases their dream.

And further friends, I am really proud to declare that when it comes to vocational education, Labor is backing public TAFE all the way.

In our first year in government, we are going to launch a great national program of renovating, upgrading and modernising TAFE campuses, starting in our regional centres and the outer suburbs.

I truly believe you measure the value a society puts upon education by the spaces and buildings in which we house our education.

I want to send a message to the next generation - that we think that TAFE education is important, and we'll give you the best resources to show that our society values an education above all else.

I want our TAFE campuses to stand as monuments to the nation's respect for apprenticeships and training and the bright future that technical training has in this country.

So in our first three years, a Labor Government will eliminate the upfront fees for 100,000 TAFE places in high priority courses. That’s Labor’s promise.

I say to every Australian parent watching this address. Labor’s promise is if you want your child to get an apprenticeship, we'll deliver on your dreams for your kids.

And we'll come down like a ton of bricks on companies using and abusing 457-style work visas to merely avoid employing local workers and paying fair wages.

Labor believes that no skills shortage in any calling, in any occupation or trade, should last one day longer than it takes to train an Australian to fill that vacancy, full stop.

Now if my team and I have the privilege to form the next government of Australia, we understand that our job means representing everybody.

Everybody. Small business owners, farmers, start-ups.

Everybody. Young and old, wherever you live, whoever you love, whatever god you pray to, indeed whoever you vote for.

Our job will be to represent everybody.

But we will do something this government are pathologically incapable of doing: we will work with the

Australian trade union movement and we will stand up for Australian workers.

My goodness, we will indeed stand up for jobs. Good jobs, secure jobs, jobs with fair pay and decent conditions.

And let’s be clear: it’s not a secure job if you have to sit up each night waiting for a text to let you know if you’ve got a shift the following morning.

It’s not a good job if you have got to work two other jobs, all hours of the day and night to pay the bills.

It’s not decent conditions if your wages are stolen, or you do not have the right to be represented by a union, or you can’t seek fair recourse because your employer is manipulating labour hire to dodge responsibility

And it’s neither a good job nor decent conditions if you don’t come home safe. If you’re made to drive dangerously long hours, or exposed to industrial diseases or sent onto sites without the safety checks and training being in place.

Working people are not commodities to be traded at the lowest possible price.

They're not costs to minimise, they are not anonymous or inevitable casualties of economic and technological change.

This is not the Australian way, it is not the Labor way.

That is why, in our first 100 days, we are going to restore Sunday and public holiday penalty rates for 700,000 workers.

And for the record, we are going to make bargaining work again. So employees and employers can negotiate without the unfair threat of the unilateral termination of workers' conditions in the current system.

We are going to crack down on the overuse and abuse of labour hire casuals. Because it’s pretty simple really: if you wear the same uniform, in the same workplace, perform the same tasks at the same classification, you deserve the same wages and conditions.

So we'll make law, if we're elected, if you do the same job, you get the same pay. Same job, same pay.

We are going to stop sham contracting and introduce a new, stronger test for the definition of casual employment.

Because many Australians are sick and tired of being classified as ‘casual’ for years, just because your boss doesn't want to pay you holiday pay or sick pay. It's not good enough.

And we'll create a Just Transition Authority, so workers and communities affected by significant change can be helped adapting to industrial change.

And friends, I'm very pleased today, proud in fact, to announce that we are going to make superannuation part of the National Employment Standards.

The retirement savings of Australian workers are a workplace right. They deserve the same strong protections as any other workplace right.

And bosses who rip-off their staff and steal their super should receive the same punishments and penalties as those who violate any other workplace right.

And for every Australian who can’t find a job, we will review and reform NewStart. Because that system should support people back into work, not punish them in poverty.

And delegates, every time we talk about fair pay, this includes equal pay for the women of Australia.

Chloe and I don’t want our daughters growing up in an Australia where the gender pay gap means that they effectively work the first two months of the year for free, compared to their male counterparts.

No more pay discounts just because you’re a woman – that’s Labor’s promise.

We will strive from the first day of an election, for pay equity for feminised industries, including but not limited to:
aged care workers early educators and paid carers, the Australians we are counting on to deliver the National Disability Insurance Scheme.
And speaking of the National Disability Insurance Scheme, a great Labor initiative.

This great Labor initiative needs a Labor government to get it back on track.

I know the conservatives voted for it. But you know their heart is not in it, and the last five and a bit years has shown their heart is not in it.

The current system is over-engineered, over-complicated and over-populated with consultants and corporates who have no lived experience in disability.

There are too many layers, too many delays, too many people with genuine need who are made to feel like frauds and cheats by assessors.

One father I know was asked: “How long has your daughter had Downs Syndrome?” Can you imagine that.

Labor created the NDIS to empower the lives of people with disability, to put them in control of their lives.

Labor will restore the NDIS to its proper status.

We'll rescue the NDIS from the Coalition, and put people with disability back at the centre of decision making, as it was always intended.

Friends, a hidden struggle in this country is being fought by hundreds of thousands of our fellow Australians who can’t afford to live anywhere near where they work.

They're spending between 30 per cent and 60 per cent of their pay packet on rent, and plenty more each day on petrol when they travel.

Nothing is more soul destroying for a person renting, than at the start of every fortnight, there goes a significant chunk of their pay packet and they wonder how on earth will they ever make ends meet.

This is a national challenge and it demands national leadership.

So, today I am proud to announce that if we are elected, a Labor Government will build 250,000 new affordable homes.

250,000 new homes:

For low income, working families.
For key workers like nurses, police, carers and teachers.
And for the fastest growing group of Australians at risk of loneliness and homelessness - women over 55, voiceless in the political debate, until today.
250,000 new homes:

Universal design, fully accessible for all ages and for people with disability
More energy efficient, meaning lower power bills
And with a rental discount of 20 per cent.
Our plan will mean that a family paying the national rental average would save up to $92 a week, every week of the year.

And we'll work with the states and territories, local councils, and those mighty community housing providers, to manage development and congestion. To make sure these homes are built where they're needed most, and to go to the people who need them most. Not foreign investors, nor international students.

And I want to see industry super stepping up and investing in affordable housing projects, investing in the homes for the people of this country.

Delegates, this is a conference which always looks towards the big ideas.

Today, this is a big idea. It will be the biggest national housing program since the Second World War.

And we can pay for this $6.6 billion investment in jobs and housing and productivity and the future of our cities, because we’ve made the big reform decisions.

This is a boost for renters and for the liveability of our growing suburbs and our rural and regional towns.

And alongside our plans to make negative gearing fairer, it will drive a boom in construction jobs and apprenticeships.

And just like our plans for:
new public transport regional roads developing the north new energy pipelines and interconnectors
When we invest precious Australian taxpayer dollars:

We’ll maximise local content, like Australian standard-steel
We’ll make sure that regional towns, like Cairns and Townsville, the Central Coast in New South Wales and Northern Tassie, get their fair share of contracts, jobs and opportunities
And we’ll make a concrete rule: wherever there is a Commonwealth dollar being expended in infrastructure, one in 10 people employed on the site will be an Australian apprentice.
Building more affordable housing is infrastructure policy. It is cities policy. It is jobs and productivity policy. And it is population policy.

Labor is the party of home ownership, and we are the party of affordable housing and community housing.

Because when you provide an affordable home for hard-working people, you give them the level playing-field and fair start they need.

I know that when every Australian has the chance to fulfil their potential, the whole nation benefits. And the opportunity to have a roof over your head will turbocharge the potential of the Australian people even more.

Delegates, we know we are all lucky to live in a country with some of the best and most dedicated health care workers in the world, our people are the best in the world.

In fact, we are fortunate to have our fair share in Caucus too:

·        Mike Freelander, a paediatrician
·        Emma McBride, a hospital pharmacist.
·        Ged Kearney, a nurse.
·        Amanda Rishworth, a psychologist.

And, of course, our outstanding candidate for Bennelong, Dr Brian Owler, Mr Medicare.

They know, indeed we all know, that Liberal cuts to health and hospitals are putting the staff and our system under terrible strain, pushing up the out-of-pocket costs, putting services out of reach.

We are a rich nation, we are a smart nation.

And if you’re fighting breast cancer, or melanoma, or your child is seriously ill.

If you’re living with chronic pain from bad knees or a crook hip, if you’ve got cataracts that you need removed to get your quality of life back.

There’s only one thing that should matter.

Not your wealth. Not your postcode. Not your ability to pay a bit extra.

One thing only. A Gough Whitlam vision that Bob Hawke made reality.

A Labor promise, written in green and gold, the one thing that matters is your Medicare card.

That is why we are going to end the Liberals’ Medicare freeze.

That is why we're going to put the money back that they have cut from hospitals.

That is why we will fund more beds, more staff, and more equipment.

Because quality health care should be available to every Australian, whenever and wherever they need it.

Labor wants every Australian to get quality health care, whenever and wherever they need it.

No issue is any more important than your health care and that is Labor’s promise.

Delegates, when it comes to climate change, our opponents trade in toxic politics, we deal in simple facts.
Climate change is real: it’s a threat to our economy and our environment.

Ignoring it, or fighting about it, won’t make it go away.

For the sake of our farmers, for the sake of our Reef and for the sake of our kids and grandkids, we have to take action.

We will cut pollution by 45 per cent by 2030.

And today I announce that a Labor Government will pass a new Environment Act and create a new Commonwealth Environmental Protection Authority to preserve our oceans, rivers, coasts and bushland and to protect the native species that call Australia home.

And we will deliver 50 per cent renewable energy by 2030.

We are going to unleash the potential of a renewable energy revolution.

It was only back in 2007, a mere seven thousand homes in Australia had a solar panel on their roof.

Today it’s over 2 million.

More and more families are:
taking back control of runaway power bills taking pressure off the energy grid and they have the chance, while lowering their cost of living, to individually take up the fight against climate change, house by house, street by street.
Nothing more highlights the waste of the last five and a bit years under the Coalition than the inability of the government to deal with climate change. Australians are so far out ahead of the current government, it is no longer funny.

But I can promise every Australian committed to taking action on climate change, every Australian concerned about their energy bills, help is on the way.

An elected Labor Government will back up the people of Australia, and we'll start with a $2,000 subsidy for 100,000 households to install their own battery storage system.

So when the kids are at school, and you’re are at work and the sun is shining, you can store-up the power to use for the evening peak.

Batteries are the bridge that turns renewable energy into the conservative solution.

But I don't believe that Australia should be installing just more batteries alone. We should be making them here.

We already produce every metal needed to make a lithium battery in this country.

We’ve got the mining industry, the scientists, the skilled workers, our people have got the get-up and go. They just need the leadership.

You know, time and time again, if you look at Australia's economic history, we've been a quarry and a mine for the rest of the world, we've been a commodity centre. We wave goodbye to our commodities and we buy them back at 30 and 40 times the price.

We pay someone else for turning our commodities into our manufactured products.

Time and time again, governments have missed the opportunity to invest in Australian industry.

Well this time, we’re going to get it right.

We’re not going to miss an opportunity to value-add in renewable energy this country.

And in years to come, when people are installing battery storage systems, I want the mark of quality – worldwide - to be three famous words:  Made in Australia.

Delegates, we can build a stronger economy, we can achieve a fairer society, and still champion a bigger and bolder sense of our Australian identity.

We do not need to be a nation constantly fearful of the world around us. As if we cannot compete, as if we cannot flourish, as if somehow our values are a luxury.

We can be a country that can write the nation big, not small.

We can be an Australia more at home with Asia, a better partner in the Pacific, a more independent foreign policy that speaks with an Australian accent.

We can be proud champion of our scientists and artists and athletes alike.

We can be a defender of our ABC.

We can be a nation back on the road to Reconciliation.

We can be a multicultural society that knows that what makes a good Australian is not whether you've been here 1000 generations or eight or one, not how your family got here, but rather it's the life you build here.

Good Australians are not defined by the length of time they've been in this country, good Australians are defined by: are they good neighbours, do they pay their taxes, do they raise their kids well, do they help build communities?

And we can be a country that stands on its own two feet: an Australian Republic with an Australian head of state.

Delegates, there’s a final, crucial point I want to make about our plan for the future.

Every pledge, from education and health to defence and national security is fully-costed and fully-funded.
Chris Bowen and I and our team have made the big calls, so that we can keep our promises, and pay for them.

And we can guarantee stronger budget surpluses. Not for the sake of it, but to ensure that along with the fair go for all, that our nation is prepared for global uncertainty and international shocks.

We do not view future budgets as a last desperate attempt to try and hold power. But rather for a purpose.

A budget is not a means in itself. Its purpose is to serve the nation and make sure the economy is run in the interests of all.

This is the Labor approach: social investment, economic responsibility, preparing for a great future.

Now of course, no tax reform is universally loved. I get that.

But for us, governing is about choices, it’s about priorities.

I would rather see more young couples buy their first home, than spend billions subsidising investors acquiring multiple properties.

I would rather help older Australians get more speedy elective surgery, and the aged care package they need, than spend $5 billion on an income tax refund for people who didn't pay any income tax that year.

And I want more multinationals to pay their fair share of tax in Australia, so Australians don’t have to keep paying more to see their doctor.

I want to be Prime Minister of an Australia with the world’s best schools and hospitals, not the world’s richest banks and the most generous tax loopholes.

Delegates, it was way back in 1891, the year that our party was born, Henry Lawson spoke of our continent as ‘a garden full of promise’.

And it’s always been Labor, the party and the movement, that makes good on that promise.

A living wage.

The age pension.

Workers compensation.

The right to organise for a better deal.

All these began their life as dangerous experiments, radical notions.

We’ve made them universal rights.

Higher education used to be an exclusive privilege.

Universal healthcare, a pipedream.

Superannuation was a luxury known only to a few.

We made them the definition of the fair go.

And we did not do this by looking around the world and aiming a little lower.

We did not do this by settling for less. We made our own way, our own story.

We planned for the future. We built for the best, because our people deserve no less.

We trusted Australians, their imagination, their courage, their faith in a common wealth in spirit as well as in name.

That’s how Gough inspired us.

It’s what Bob taught us.

It’s Paul’s big picture.

Kevin’s victory.

Julia’s determination.

It’s what our Labor Premiers and Labor leaders are doing, around the country.

It’s Curtin’s ‘task ahead’, it’s Chifley’s light on the hill.

It is our Labor way: write the country large, build for the best. Draw upon the bravery and compassion that ordinary Australians live every day.

This is the Labor tradition that will guide us now.

Passing on a better deal to the next generation, than that which we inherited from our parents.

Passing on a better deal, social progress, economic prosperity, a fair go for all.

Delegates, as I said at the beginning, over the next three days, truly the eyes of the nation are upon us.

We have an obligation to millions of our supporters and millions of Australians who want and need a

Labor government, that we measure up to it.

Collectively, all of us, need to earn the trust of the Australian people.

Because when we leave here on Tuesday evening, we have a most enormous task in front of us.

Federal Labor has only won government from opposition three times since the Second World War.

I know that nobody will work harder than the people in this room to win the next election.

And nobody will work harder to be the government that the nation deserves, the government that our nation needs.

Because we don’t seek victory to make history for our party.

We seek government to build a fairer future for our country.

And if we win this election, our number one challenge and my greatest ambition is to restore trust in our system.

To prove to the Australian people that politics and government can still serve the interests of everyday Australians, still make a difference in the daily lives of our fellow Australians.

To show there is still life and hope in the fair go.

And if I have the privilege to serve as Prime Minister, my greatest hope is that people will say about me at the conclusion of that time:

“He delivered. He kept to his word.”

I want the citizens of this country to come up to my parliamentary team over our time in government and say,

"You know, we did try this together. Maybe we didn't always succeed in every issue, but at least we had a government focused on the people."

And when I look at my team and I look at our plans, I know that if we keep to our word, we can do great things for this nation.

So friends, we indeed have the vision for the future, the plan to pay for it and the team to deliver it.

We are united. We are determined. And we are ready.

Ready to serve. Ready to lead.

Ready to deliver: a fair go for Australia.


So it's a great credit to you that you’ve kept order in the chamber and held onto your sense of humour as well.

Now, last week I’m pretty sure the Prime Minister effectively announced the election could be on either May 11th or May 18th.

What may be of greater interest to some in the House is to learn that the Prime Minister's birthday is May 13th and mine is May 12th.

So it’s fair to say that both of us are probably hoping the other one doesn’t have the world's happiest birthday next year. But I think it makes it all the more important for me to wish the Prime Minister a Merry Christmas.

Chloe and I wish you and Jenny and your precious daughters a safe and happy time together over the summer.

And despite everything that they say about me, my best wishes to the government members. They did me the compliment this year of mentioning me, personally, 1260 times in Question Time. That's about every three and a half minutes - and that includes our questions.

It makes me wonder what on earth the government would do without me.

I should also, I think, just briefly acknowledge former Prime Minister Turnbull and Lucy Turnbull. They served and led this country up to August of this year.

And I also should acknowledge the Member for Curtin, who served with distinction as Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party and Foreign Minister, not only for much of this year but for indeed, her time in Government.

I also should say Merry Christmas as well to the fastest-growing group in the chamber, the crossbench, Merry Christmas.


We pay tribute to the Australian Federal Police and our security agencies who calmly and professionally keep us safe.

We acknowledge the men and women who have already begun another long hot summer of fighting fires and saving lives and communities.

At Christmas we think of our police and ambos, our nurses and emergency services, the people who come face-to-face with the tragic human consequences and stresses and strains of this time of year.

Let us also spare a thought for those who are going without, people battling everything from poverty to addiction, to homelessness, to just simple loneliness.

We give thanks to their allies in this fight, those remarkable souls in charity organisations who do everything they can to bring some Christmas cheer to those who really do deserve it the most.

I also want to salute all the Australians who will be working through Christmas giving up their time with the people they love, to make sure that there's food on the table, the bills are paid and the rest of us can enjoy our Christmas.
.
In 2018, around the nation, Australia was tested by fire and floodwaters, by drought and hardship, by terror and tragedy.

But in the face of disaster our people stand strong.

In the shadow of evil our communities come together.

And when times are toughest, neighbours and strangers could always count on each other.

As ever, the greatness of our country revealed itself not just in the high places of power and privilege but in the hearts of our citizens.

As always, we find remarkable inspiration in the character and courage of everyday Australians.

Especially, our resilient farmers battling drought, who put the food on the table for the nation.


Only twice in the history of football has a side kicked the first five goals of the Grand Final and lost and on both occasions, it was Collingwood.

So congratulations to West Australians and Eagles supporters and in the league, the Roosters.

On the Gold Coast this year our athletes starred, none I would suggest more inspirational or impressive, than the amazing, inspirational, legendary Kurt Fearnley.

At beautiful Moonee Valley, in my electorate, the mighty mare won her fourth Cox Plate.

And speaking of winning with a leg in the air, congratulations to Premier Daniel Andrews.

In the Caribbean, the Southern Stars clinched another World Cup.

And as women’s sporting codes around our nation continue to grow and thrive and inspire, let us do more to see these athletes be paid like the elite professionals they are.


None of us would be here without the sacrifices, patience and support of our family.

I thank Chloe for her love, advice, her policy passion and for basically raising our kids, largely on her own, as so many of our partners do.

Last night I missed our youngest daughter’s concert. But we all miss a lot in these jobs, big moments and little everyday treasures.

So to my son Rupert, congratulations on finishing Year 12.

To Georgette, I’m sorry that I mentioned your boyfriend on radio before you were ‘Facebook official’.

And to Clementine, I’m pleased to say that I kept my promise and made it through the year without dabbing in public. Please lift the fatwa.

Speaking of families who have put up with a lot, I’d like to thank my Caucus colleagues.

Beginning, of course, with the Member for Sydney.

Tanya, the greatest gift - not that there are many from being Leader of the Opposition for five years - is to develop the friendship I have with you.

In the other place we are fortunate to be led by Senators Penny Wong and Don Farrell. Perhaps the most unlikely, iconic and beloved combination to come out of South Australia since the pie floater.

To the Member for McMahon, thank you for your belief in Labor as a party of ideas and initiative and everything you do to advance our cause as an alternative government, not just a strong opposition.

To our Manager of Opposition Business, the Member for Watson, we need only to look at next year’s sitting calendar to show how effective you are your job.

To the newest member of our leadership group, Brendan O’Connor, your resilience, your humour, your love of the good fight, and your love of Una, you cheers us all, you make us respect you.

To all of my senior colleagues, I won't namecheck you all but you know who you are. To all of my members of the executive, to all of those who serve in the parliamentary Labor Party, thank you very much for your support, for your vision and for your unity.

I say thank you to our Chief Whip, Chris Hayes and the Deputy Whips who do everything you can to keep us in line.

Indeed, I wish I had the opportunity to acknowledge each of my Caucus colleagues, you are outstanding, you give up a lot, you push your case with fierceness and determination and with idealism and optimism.

On this side of the parliament we carry the Labor banner but we know an army marches at our back.

So to our branch members and true believers, thank you for giving our movement such life and purpose.

To our National Secretary, Noah Carroll and his team: in the next 162 days and 12 hours, you have a national conference - thank the Government for that - before Christmas, and a federal election campaign to run next year.

So please squeeze in a Merry Christmas in between.

I do want to thank and acknowledge the trade union movement of Australia.

Earlier this year, I travelled up to Sale to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the explosion at the Longford Gas Plant.

I’ll never forget being at the site that afternoon as a younger official - when they showed us the security footage. Footage of the explosions which took two lives and badly burned two others.
There were nine explosions, nine fireballs, it looked like film of an air force bombing raid as the gas explosions occurred.  In the foreground, sensibly, you could see a lot people running from the area of the explosion to safety.

But every single person in the orange overalls, the operators and in-house maintenance, they were running towards the danger, going to their mates.

Twenty years ago, these were the people that this large multinational company tried to blame for the disaster, the people who ran towards the peril.
Their union stood up for them then, defended them and protected them. In the end, these workers got bravery medals.
But even now, at ESSO, the union movement is still fighting for maintenance workers who were unceremoniously sacked over 500 days ago. Only to be told that if they wanted their jobs back that they’d had, in some cases for decades, they had to accept a 30 per cent pay cut from one of the richest companies in the world.

The fight for fairness is a job that never stops but it’s where some of the most rewarding work can be.

It is why I’m proud, every day, to be a member of an Australian trade union.


I say to those of you who located our free drinks on Tuesday night – which was a healthy majority, and I think they all attended the Prime Minister's beforehand too – you genuinely perform a public service, our democracy is better for it.

And talking of what makes our system better, it brings me to the people who do the listening in this place: the Hansard reporters, the clerks and chamber attendants, the tabling and drafting officers, and all the other quietly-turning cogs who keep the machinery of our Parliament and our democracy turning over.

To everyone who plays a part: the caterers, 2020, broadcast, the landscapers, librarians, gym staff and security guards, thank you for what you do in the service of our democracy.
In particular, we must always acknowledge one of the more remarkable monopolies in this place, so I acknowledge Dom and the team at Aussies. They’ve probably got the soccer on right now but they can read about this later.

I do too want to thank our cleaners, especially in my office, the aptly-named and ever-cheerful Joy.

We all spend our lives in a tearing hurry and I would say in Melbourne, without my Comcar drivers Peter Taylor and Steve Smith and Dave ‘Smokey’ Keylie -  I would miss a lot of flights and be even later to some of my press conferences.


As usual, this section of my speech is both highlighted and in bold: I would like to thank my staff, both in my electorate office in Moonee Ponds and my personal staff.

Many staff come here dreaming of The West Wing, these days my staff console themselves by watching Veep.

It’s been a long road – not just the 1602km I’ve run so far this year, I've recorded this - but I've been glad to have you with me on the journey.


There are issues and questions which divide this place, from the momentous to the trivial, but a big truth unites us all.

We are drawn here because we believe that politics is more than a career. It is a vocation, it is a call to service.

Service, not just in the name of the people who voted for us - but for the next generation, for the future of all Australians.

The best day this parliament has had this year, in 2018, was the apology to the survivors and victims of institutional child sexual abuse.

It was a day full of hard truths and raw emotions: re-awakened pain for those who came to hear the apology, grief for those who did not live long enough to hear it being given.

And amidst the remarkable privilege we all had of meeting with survivors and advocates and warriors who fought for that day, two things shone through to me.

One: the unselfishness that drove them.

They sought the apology not because of what it would mean for them but because they believed it was the best and surest way to prevent this happening again to another generation. To protect the next generation so  that what happened to the survivors would not happen again.

But the second thing which shone through to me is that: there are many Australians who have reasons to distrust this place, there are many Australians who are cynical about politics, these Australians in particular had every reason to distrust this place and despise politicians.

But they still found it in themselves to include the Parliament in the nation’s healing.

So remarkably, after all the betrayals they’d endured, they gave us a gift.

They reminded us of the privilege that we have in this place and the power we have, to speak for our nation and to serve it.

I don't normally take the adjournment but today Australians deserve an explanation.

They deserve an explanation why this government, which lurches from “crisis to crisis, embarrassment piled on embarrassment, week after week,” Australians deserve to know why they don't have national security encryption legislation, why the kids are still on Nauru and why their power prices are still going up.

This Government has said that these are very important issues, in particular, national security.

At the beginning of this week they threatened Labor and said: "You must not stand in the way of encryption legislation"

And indeed, earlier on the 22nd of November, the current Prime Minister said about encryption legislation, and I quote:

"Our police, our agencies need these powers now. I would like to see them passed, in fact I would insist on seeing them passed before the end of the next sitting fortnight."

But I regret to advise the Australian people that we've arrived at the end of the sitting fortnight, there is legislation passed and amended in the Senate which then comes back to the House of Representatives to be finalised.

It has ever been thus in the Australian parliamentary system. The House of Reps, or the Senate, amend laws and the other house then considers them.

Now what happened is this government rushed a set of encryption laws which were just frankly, botched. This Opposition absolutely worked to get agreement to repair them as best we can, and this morning the Government gave us 170 amendments on vital legislation to do with digital privacy, tracking down terrorists and criminals, security, economics.

And Labor in the Parliament, and the crossbench, have considered 170 amendments and ratified them in the Senate in the last hour.

But apparently, this Christmas, when it was so vital to have national security laws, the government now say: “Five o'clock, time to go home. We will worry about national security next year.”

Shame, shame, shame.

You use national security as a stick to try and score a political angle, Labor looks at national security and says how do we work together to make Australians safe.

And what has happened is these laws are ready to be passed right now. And every year past when the Parliament has laws which arrived late, because the Parliament was scheduled to finish at five o'clock for the year, we sit later.

Both political parties tell their members of parliament, don't book your flights, don't make commitments in the electorates tomorrow.

Because a tried and true system of government under John Howard and Bob Hawke and even Tony Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull was that if you have laws which need to be passed, and the government has made the case they need to be passed, you stay and do the job. You don't go home.

But under this government, apparently national security is only national security till five o'clock on a Thursday.

Because the bad guys don't worry about our national security, they will stop at 5 o'clock.

We have got a work-to-rule government who is divided and the real reason why we're not dealing with these laws is because the Parliament is expressing the will, in addition to the proper scrutiny of laws.

We want to see the kids off Nauru, kids who need medical treatment where the treating medicos say they should be done. We simply say, they should get that treatment and the decision-making should be transparent and accountable.

But this is where we now find out the real priorities of this ideologically bankrupt, this morally abject failing government. They are more keen to be seen to maintain their political pride than either protect Australians or get kids off Nauru or even deal with lower energy prices.

This is a government who are so consumed by their own pride, they have been divided all this year, they got rid of their sitting prime minister, they lost an electorate, and lost some of the members of parliament for whom they have relied on.

They bullied the Member for Banks out of the Liberal Party and because of their own internal discord, they are now concerned that children might be able to have a transparent process to receive the medical treatment they deserve.

But this is a government who says national security is number one, unless it’s Prime Minister Morrison's pride, because then national security is number two.

It says the safety of children is number one, unless the pride of Prime Minister Morrison is in danger, then that comes first.

This government should be ashamed of itself. It has put its own pride, its own political bacon, ahead of the children on Nauru, ahead of national security and the people of Australia.

In the final parliamentary sitting week of last year, this chamber – overwhelmingly – voted to make marriage equality a reality.

No-one who sat in the house for that final vote on that day will forget the emotion of that moment.

And yet it is not even a year passed – barely 360 days – the Australian people are entitled to ask if their government has already forgotten the lessons of that day and that change.

On marriage equality, it's fair to say that our parliament followed behind the people of Australia, trailed the people of Australia – by years.

Too many times, the simple question of every Australian’s right to be equal in the eyes of the law was contorted and distorted and delayed, weaponised in a culture war, employed as a proxy for internal struggles.

And then, in a final admission of failure, the decision was outsourced to a postal survey.

Now for too many of our fellow Australians, this survey was a gruelling, emotional ordeal.

What a cheek for loving couples to have their relationships subjected to the judgment of 16 million strangers.

Our young Australians some of whom grappling with their identity, listening to people publicly argue that somehow they were second-class citizens.

It’s a powerful testament to the resilience and courage of our LGBTI community that they came through last year unbowed.

It is a tribute to the wisdom and generosity of our fellow Australians.

And in particular to our young Australians.

But that is no reason to revisit it in another form, no reason to re-open scars still in the process of healing.

Our country does not need another nasty, ill-informed debate about whether people’s sexuality somehow diminishes their right to equality.

Especially when the Australians we are talking about are children and young people.

There are many parents and aunts and uncles and neighbours here in this chamber.

All of us want our children to be happy at school, to make friends, to be resilient.

To learn character and values as well as maths and science and reading and writing and coding.

I’m sure all of us try and teach our children to be kind and respectful.

I'm like most Australians, I don’t make a habit of talking about my faith publically as a rule – but as the beneficiary of a Jesuit education, this is what I was taught.

I was taught the lessons of the beatitudes, perhaps the most famous  speech in human history, from the sermon on the mount.

It was a message of universal love, tolerance and service.

The instruction to judge not, for in the same you judge others you will be judged.

In everything, do to others that you would have them do unto you.

When I was at school, this was called the golden rule.
To do to others, what you would have them to unto you.

And today this parliament has a chance to write the principle of the golden rule into the laws of our land.

I believe we should be able to do this without a protracted or heated debate, without a whole lot of delaying tactics and diversionary arguments.

Because surely as a parliament and a people – we can agree that every Australian child has the right to be treated equally.

That’s precisely and solely what this legislation seeks to do.

Simply put, this legislation will prevent any child from being denied an education because of their sexuality.

Voting for this bill would repeal s38 (3) of the Sexual Discrimination Act.

Which currently makes it lawful for religious educational institutions to discriminate against another person on the ground of the person’s sexual orientation or gender identity….in the provision of education and training.

Or put another way, this legislation removes the power of schools to discriminate against a prospective or current student on the basis of their sexual orientation.

I want to be clear about this, the power to discriminate is something that many of the religious school administrators I have spoken to in preparation of this legislation, have made it clear to me that they do not want and do not use.

Catholic schools. Anglican schools. Baptist schools, have all said so.

The archbishops and the bishops I’ve spoken to do not seek its retention.

Our legislation seeks the balance between protecting the religious freedom of faith-based schools – and protecting the essential human dignity of every Australian child.

And that’s what voting for this proposition would achieve.


This legislation does not affect the teaching of religious education.

This legislation does not prevent schools from including Chapel, or prayer in the timetable.

This legislation does not prevent religious schools from setting out reasonable requirements on their students, in accordance with their beliefs and values.

The legislation is not about bible colleges training people for missionary work, or priests and ministers.

I recognise that almost all religions are engaged in ‘education’ as part of their weekly worship and their community life, it’s core business – and it will continue.

And this legislation does not release any of the thousands of straw men and slippery slope arguments of ‘political correctness gone mad’.

This legislation is neither a Trojan Horse, nor Pandora’s Box, it is neither an assault on Western-Judeo-Christian society nor the expulsion of faith from the public square.

It’s a simple change driven by unarguable basic decency - it’s something the parliament can pass today, with support from all sides.

I understand the Prime Minister did not vote for marriage equality, he was always clear about that.

But he has publicly – and repeatedly - said that he supports protecting kids from discrimination.

So has the Treasurer. So has the Attorney-General. So have many more government members – frontbench and backbench, Liberal and National.

And it would be a better and stronger statement of respect and equality, if this law was passed this week, with the support of the Government, the Opposition and the crossbench.

In fact, that’s the major reason the legislation as drafted deals with the question of discrimination against students but not teachers.

I’ve already said that Labor supports protecting teachers and school staff from discrimination on the basis of their sexuality or marital status or pregnancy.

I don’t believe any Australian should be denied employment because of who they are or who they love.

A teacher’s marital or relationship status or sexual orientation or gender identity or pregnancy has no correlation whether they are a good person or a good teacher.

But I recognise that there isn’t quite yet the same degree of consensus in the parliament on this question.

So rather than seek to use that as wedge or a cause of division or as a bargaining chip in negotiations - Labor is prepared to prioritise students immediately before the parliament rises.

And I will seek a Private Member’s Bill dealing with protecting teachers and staff from discrimination in the first sitting fortnight of next year, following the school holidays.

This will be done in a way which ensures that schools can continue to make employment decisions in line with their beliefs.

And in this specific context – and across the board - Labor has repeatedly said we are open to a discussion about how religious freedom can be better protected in this country.

But surely the starting point for anything the parliament does in regard to this must involve the release of the Ruddock Review.

It reflects poorly on the Government that they have withheld the review from Labor, from the parliament, from the people of Australia for seven months to try and gain some kind of political advantage from something as deeply personal as people’s faith.

Labor believes that this is a situation where religious organisations can teach according to their faith but we can have a situation which doesn't authorise discrimination against teachers or students.

We don't have to have a situation where people on basis of their sexuality are accused of being able to impinge upon other people's faith - it is not an either or.

This is another issue which a substantial majority in this parliament agree with each other.

But the determination of some in the Government to play politics runs the risk of getting in the way.

So therefore, we’ll rise at the end of the week for – as has been widely noted – quite some time.

And I’m sure that every member of this place, when they’re back in their local community, will hear from people who are frustrated and bewildered by politics at the moment.

I am sure - like me - honourable members have heard, on more than one occasion:

“Surely isn't this a bit of show on television, colour and movement"

Surely as we say back, "most of the time parliament is a productive, co-operative place."

Now actually that does happen to be true on many occasions - but today is an opportunity to restore people's faith in our system.

Let us not tie ourselves in knots trying to manufacture a fight on this argument.

The schools don't need this exemption to discrimination laws, they don't seek this exemption and we shouldn't be arguing about it here.

We don't need to complicate the process with needless amendments, raising issues which are not actually in contention dressed up as a question of principle.

For that matter, let’s not waste a minute arguing over whose signature goes on the front page of this Bill.

If the Government want to match this mirror legislation, exactly as we have it, they can sign the bill.

There’s currently a bill in the Senate, we’re happy to look at that too.

This shouldn’t be too hard.

Let’s change the law before the House adjourns for 2018 – before school starts again in 2019.

Politics can be a complicated business – but today is a simple test of our decency.

Well goodness me, Tony and I, and we've got Madeleine King, Warren Snowdon and a few other federal colleagues here, we spent all week looking at the government - and then we get to spend a day with you so thank you very much.

Thank you very much for coming here and giving up some of your time - and congratulations, I have to say, to Tony Burke who has been a real champion for today's policy announcement. Well done Tony.

I had a bit of a prepared speech, and I will talk about our policy in a moment but can I just say I've been blown away by the last 30 minutes.

You really make the case for investing in live music, and for investing in music.

That line, workers of song. You know, I'm a former union rep, I think which the Government bangs on about all the time, but what I realise is that's a great way of looking at some of what we need to do.

If we're to have a fantastic music industry then we need to invest in our workers of song.

And then when I heard about the role of music is to make sure that those who are not at the table, get to be at the table.

I thought, what a fantastic description of the importance of equality in this country.

So already I feel the case has been made for what we're going to announce, but I should also explain a little bit about my personal journey while I stand up here in front of you.

When Chloe and I got together and we married, she moved down from Queensland and while she had been someone who loved singing in her teenage years and early twenties, she'd had a little bit of a interregnum for a decade.

And she came back and we set up, and she started to sing jazz at the local pub, and  I get to see what music can do, and she's explained so much to me from the point of view of someone who loves music passionately - the importance that music can play in life.

So, she's a big reason that I'm standing up here.

The other reason is my kids. All of my kids are musical which shows that genes do flow through the mother quite often.

But they all love it. They play instruments, they sing, they perform and what that's done in that journey is introduced me to a lot of music teachers.

And a lot of the music teachers I've met are also accomplished artists, but they can't make a living out of their art alone. So they teach which is fantastic and I've seen the benefit of choirs and bands, I see the benefit which has been much more eloquently spoken about by earlier speakers.

But I also see how much this nation relies upon our musicians in many ways which you don't get credit for.

You know, the music teachers of Australia, do such a wonderful job in the nation of Australia for educating our young people.

So today is not just about what we're going to talk about, but for me this is my way as a parent and as a husband saying thank you to all the musicians of Australia for what you do for everyone else. You bring joy to our lives.

I had an opportunity in my job to go to, perhaps at the end of the year, you go and see the Christmas performances where school choirs would perform in homes of the elderly.

Growing old is not for the faint hearted and dementia is a terrible thing.

But I physically see, almost a miraculous transformation. The kids are singing the songs of these residents' youth and they sing and you can see the animation return to the features of the audience, you see the tears running down literally out of the eyes of the audience, where they have a connection.

And it really is right, the researchers are right, that music has a way of penetrating the psyche of the soul.

I mean I wonder what the alternative is. What if the live music stopped?

Imagine if we didn't have live music in Australia.

Imagine if we didn't have Australian music.

It'd be a very different world.

You know, I think musicians are brave. I think for you, what you do now, what Alex just did then, will stay in the souls of generations to come.

What a marvellously modest yet amazingly talented human being. And she's assertive, and she performs.

What she will do will stay in our souls for generations.

The other thing about musicians is that it's live.

Live is scary. You can't go back and edit it and it's not an Instagram photo where you can carefully crop those, remarkably you know, inauthentic images.

What instead is that when a musician comes here and performs, you give it your own emotions.

You look accomplished to us but you're vulnerable at the very same time and no performance is exactly the same as any other performances - it's unrepeatable and unique.

I think this is worth cherishing.

I think this is something - this is a gift and it's a gift which as we heard, enriches.

You know I think when you perform live, truth comes in live things.

In a world where we complain about inauthenticity - you should see my workplace - where we complain about inauthenticity, what we've seen already today in very special snippets, is we see truth, we see what we create.

There's no surprise in my mind why many more Australians go to concerts than watch Question Time - there's other reasons too. You should hear the answers they give.

But it's live, it's emotional, it's authentic. You can't sugarcoat it.

And I also think that when you're an artist, and you perhaps get that right set of chords, you get that harmony with your band mates or your accompanist - you can be in a rapture.

It is the gift that you just give yourself and those you perform with.

So I love our musicians, you are sincerely our best selves when you perform.

And I also think that our music is much more than just entertainment.

Fundamentally, of course it's that emotional honest connection, that vulnerability but it's also at different levels it's about our identity - our sense of self.

It's about who we are as a country.

You are when you perform, you may not realise this or maybe you do - you are the nation that you're inviting us to see in the mirror.

You are the nation that we want our kids and our grandkids to see in the mirror.

You’re the story of our times for the future to interpret.

You’re the story of hope for our future to aspire to.

You know, Alex again - Tony and I don't mean to particularly to embarrass you anymore but that not worth hiding - sometimes in life you can sum up the mood of a nation - that is a real gift.

For you though, to give strength to people, to sum up their mood, to give them that validation, that sense of confidence to get up and get on, that is what you do in music every day.

You do of course also carry us over the oceans.

You carry us over the oceans in a marvellously positive way.

Really, when you look at our population - we're a small number in a big and crowded globe but when you look at our contribution through music we are disproportionately influential - we carry the Australian story and you are our best ambassadors.

But of course all of this doesn't just happen.

You know, it's the product of our culture, it's the product of our education system.

But it's also about celebrating artists, about championing your industry.

Australia is a better country when we back our arts when we back our culture, when we back our music.

You know, when you come and think about all the things you've done in a day or in a week, or a year.

The things you most remember I believe, are the creative moments.

So we want to work with you.

I mean politics in this country doesn't just have to be the sledgehammer politics of destruction.

Of course we've got to deal with national security, of course we've got to deal with all of the important issues which consume the front pages of our paper.

But we are here today, Labor is here today because we actually think that the political debate in this country has to change.

People are cynical about politics they think we're all in it for ourselves, they think individuals can't do things, no wonder they love their music.

In music you can do things - in politics it all seems to be a fixed deal, a vested interest, it's all too hard. It's all too scary out there.

We are constantly told to be afraid of the future.

Now, do I think that live music is going to change the next election - no.

But what I do think is that we've got to have some hope in our political debate.

Labor has chosen to back live music today because we want to give people something to look forward to, we want to have a vision of Australia which is proud.

You can either write Australia small, or you can write Australia big - as our songwriters do, as our musicians do.

Trust me I've learnt more today than I'm going to tell you.

What I feel out of today is a renewed conviction to write Australia big.

Our young people in particular, they get written off every day but what are we doing for them?

We are not taking action on climate change.

We are not properly funding universities.

We are not even properly funding and supporting live music.

So today we are going to invest in live music, we are going to create community music hubs so that people can fall in love with music.

I love what I heard when we realised that music is remarkably democratic.

Any walk of life, any gender, your region, where ever you live - music has no bars.

It has no cage which bars people from entering it.

So we want to invest in community music, we want to protect your copyright.

We want to make sure that going forward, the ticket scalpers and the Viagogos and  - well done to Gang of Youths - I never want to really annoy you because you are very effective advocates.

So we're going to say to the scalpers, no more.

Just stop it, go and find your scams with some other area of endeavour.

But for the people who have invested in their product, for people who have invested in the time and the energy, we want them to see the returns go to the industry, not to the freeloaders and the parasites who take double and triple what the musicians are making and much more because there is no regulation.

We want to make it easier for musicians to follow their dreams.

We want to invest in more music education, we want to invest in more music teachers.

Our policy today is going to also support managers because we understand that the managers are crucial and that we need to make sure that they're getting the support they require.

We also want to invest in support actors, we've said we want to invest in Nordoff Robbins.

We want to provide music as a therapy to kids who might have an impairment but shouldn't be just treated and defined solely by their impairment.

We also, also, absolutely want to invest in Sounds Australia.

We want to make it easier for the talent we've seen here and the talent in this room and the talent in the nation to be shared with the rest of the world.

We’re going to back music because I think music is about writing Australia large.

But I have to say that again, we shouldn't overcomplicate politics.

You get out of politics what you put into it.

If you think that today's policies make sense, please tell some people.

Politics isn't some remote control video game that you sit at home and watch.

What it is it's about engagement, it's about people.

We won't get the live music industry we deserve in this country without all of your effort.

I love the fact you're here but we need to go from here and tell other people that we think that music is an important political issue - not what is in the music but the fact that music should be supported.

I promise you from increasing funding to the ABC, to making sure that we do a lot more of the other creative art forms - we'll have a lot more to say about that.

Labor has made the choice to make live music a national political issue.

We're going to fund it - I hope that the government just see this and as they do sometimes, just immediately copy us but that's good.

We don't copyright on a good idea.

But what we also want to do is say to all of you, thank you.

We believe in you, you bring a remarkable gift, we want to keep faith and in particular for me - I want to keep faith not only with our very elite acts.

I want to keep faith with every person who has been a musician.

I want to keep faith with everyone who has pursued a creative love and a passion.

Has had that emotional honesty to perform, has had that connection with their colleagues and provided emotional connection with their audience and fans.

We can be a truly fantastic country if we back ourselves, we back our identity and we have no better way to back ourselves and to back our identity than to back music.

Therefore calls on this ramshackle, reactionary Government to stop fighting itself and start focusing on the needs of the Australian people.


The rest of Australia doesn't get to take months and months off work when it feels scared about coming to work. So why is the Prime Minister insisting on a part-time parliament?

I believe that this part-time parliament confirms that we have a part-time Prime Minister running a part-time government and not at any time in the interests of the Australian people.

The Prime Minister is fond of saying, "If you have a go, you'll get a go." But obviously it doesn't include "you need to go to work to have a go".

What a work-shy government.

I've wondered what would happen to members of the CFMEU if they ran an industrial action campaign and proposed in the lunch shed one morning, "I have a great idea. Let's only go to work for 10 days in the next eight months."

Now, they would probably be sacked and, indeed, this government would like to put them in jail.

But it's one standard for the Morrison ministry and another standard for the workers of Australia.

Who on earth in Australia gets to say that, "I'm not happy with my job today or next week, so I won't come for the next eight months, except for a total of 10 days."

The Australian people, in all seriousness, are our employers. They remain deeply unimpressed that they have a government of parliamentarians who seek the people to vote for them to be in parliament, but once they voted for them to be in parliament, those Liberal and National parliamentarians feel no obligation to actually report to parliament.

The part-time parliament, however, points to a bigger issue - this is a government which has simply ceased to govern.

Not only have they given up governing, they've given up pretending to govern.

They have no agenda and no legislation. They're just swept along by the currents of hate and division in the river which is the Government Coalition ranks.

An example of what demonstrates their lack of an agenda, or a lack of commitment to an agenda, is that on Monday they voted in favour of a National Integrity Commission.

We thought this was a positive development because they had rejected our ideas for a year to have a National Integrity Commission.

But then, as we explored the logic of this government by question time, the Prime Minister told us that an integrity commission and the issue of integrity in parliament is a "fringe issue".

Then, furthermore, he couldn't explain if he actually supported one or not.

But they did implausibly say that one of the problems with having a National Integrity Commission is it might mean that ABC journalists would be picked upon by that commission.

You could see the fingernail marks in the marble from the blue carpet of the executive section of the parliament as they were dragged to vote for this National Integrity Commission.

But the reason why they voted for it is they were scared of the debate.

We should have seen on Monday a forecast of things which were to come.

They don't want to be in parliament, even though they collect the wages of people who are expected to go to parliament.

But there is a second reason other than their lack of agenda, and their inability to do anything other than respond to events, why they don't seek to be in parliament.

There is another reason, the reason why this government doesn't like to turn up to work is because those in the government can't stand being in the same city as their other colleagues in government, much less be in the same room.
Australians are confronted with a sorry sight of a part-time parliament, because this government has a full-time obsession with fighting amongst themselves.

The parliament is part-time under this Prime Minister, but the civil war in the Liberal Party is a full-time occupation.

The ramshackle, reactionary Coalition sitting opposite are so consumed by some form of existential identity crisis, some bizarre debate about what it means to be a "real Liberal".

They watch and re-watch the old footage of John Winston Howard and they roll him out in some sort of, you know, video to prove that they were once Liberal.

They re-interpret the speeches of the 70-year-old Menzies era as some sort of Ouija board to help give them advice as they go forward in their current crisis.

They talk to themselves, about themselves, in conservative echo chambers.

They pontificate about this mythical right-wing base and they write off whole communities as irrelevant.
Don't worry, they say:

Batman isn't the real Australia.
Perth is not the real Australia.
Fremantle is not the real Australia.
Mayo is not the real Australia.
Braddon is not the real Australia.
Longman is not the real Australia.
Wentworth is not the real Australia.
And Victoria is not the real Australia.

Rather than face up to their failures of policy, rather than change their out-of-touch attitudes, rather than take responsibility for the cuts and chaos, they prefer to engage in conspiracy theories.

Yet again, we saw it on the front pages of The Australian newspaper.

The conservatives see the invisible hand of Malcolm Bligh Turnbull in every decision, like this Tiberius with a twitter handle.

You have to feel for Malcolm Turnbull - and I'm sure some of you do now.

He must be wondering how come he never had this kind of mythical, Keyer Söze influence when he was the Prime Minister of Australia.

And the economic shift is extraordinary too. After all, the Liberal Party used to believe in the invisible hand, they used to be the party of the invisible hand. Now they are scared of the invisible hand. They blame it for everything going wrong.

The problem is, as humorous as it might be at one level, the nation is tired of this government.

I stood on the polling booths in Victoria -  and whilst all credit goes to Premier Andrews and there were many state issues - the truth of the matter is, when you see polling booths in Flinders down at Nepean state electorate, or Kooyong at Hawthorn, or in Higgins in Malvern and you see people who have only ever voted Liberal in their life and they say, "When is the federal election?". You know that this is a government who is not only scared of the parliament, they are scared of the Australian people.

And for good reason, they should be scared. Because Australians want more than the chaos of the government, the division of the government, the dysfunction of the government, and the internal hatreds of the government.

Labor knows that the path which you have adopted, the Australian people will resoundingly reject policies which come from a government which is based on fear. The only argument that this desperate government has is they simply say that "we are not Labor".
But what they fail to do, is they personalise this dispute.
I thought even as remarkable as the part-time parliament, was when the Prime Minister said "It's all about me and him".

No, Prime Minister. It's about the Australian people.

It is about the penalty rates that you won't restore.

It is about the school funding promises you broke and will not keep.

It is about the growing out-of-pocket costs for healthcare, and for X-rays, and diagnostic images.

It is about the fact that you won't give 3-year-olds universal preschool.

It is about the fact that you have 120,000 people waiting for aged care.

It is about the fact that you want to hand on to the next generation inadequate action on climate change. It is about the fact that you ignore rising power prices because of your obstinate denial of climate change.

We will look forward to the next election, but what we say about it is to this government, in the meantime, do not be a part-time parliament.

Show respect to the people and turn up to work and do your day job until the people get to evaluate your job at the next election.

I would like to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet, and I pay my respects to elders past and present.

I'd like to acknowledge all of the distinguished guests who are here, and including in that list of course are my parliamentary colleagues Senator Carr, Senator Pratt, Member for Calwell, Maria Vamvakinou, Member for Wakefield, Nick Champion and Senator Deborah O'Neill.

I get that there's a national frustration with politics at the moment, and when you sit in Question Time as often as I do I understand why.

But we will have an election, the election will mostly likely be in early May of next year.

And whilst politics as usual I don't think cuts it with the Australian people, what I endeavour to do, is to fulfil the obligation that elected representatives have to outline a view of the future.

Not just the problems of your opponents, but the positive case for change.

So I've given some speeches about Labor's vision, my vision for the future.

We've spoken about early childhood education, to energy policy, to foreign policy. This nation I believe is hungry for a political discourse which travels beyond the short term and the quick fix, the eight second grab on the television news.

I want to be able to explain to the Australian people at the next election where we see this country in 2030 and beyond, and what are our national priorities.
Science is central to answering this question of a vision of the future of our nation in 2030.

For the five years that I've been Leader of the Opposition, I have spoken on a number of occasions about the centrality of science on the national political agenda.
It was back at the heart of one the first major speeches I gave as Labor leader, way back in February 2014.

In fact the case I made to be elected leader of Labor included the need to properly fund science and research in Australia.

Science, research and innovation were in my Budget Reply, central to it in 2015.

I've addressed this academy on previous occasions and through the five years of ‘Science Meets Parliament', I’ve appreciated the opportunity to meet so many of you, and so many of the younger scientists and Post Doc researchers.

To benefit from your expertise and to help be informed about the design of the best possible policies for the nation.

That's a long-winded way of saying that science is not an issue that Kim Carr and I, and my colleagues have discovered six months before the next election.

We don't see it as an advertising poster on a bus stop in suburban Australia.

It is at the heart of our vision for Australia's future in the next decade and beyond.

Because for me and for Labor, science draws it all together: knowledge, skills, enterprise, people, progress.

It is essential to who we are and where we want to go as a nation.

It makes us a Commonwealth in spirit, not just in name.

Or as the President of your academy, Professor Shine, put it recently and I quote:
science decides whether we determine our future, or are swept along trailing the decisions of other nations.

Whilst, it is a perceptive comment it seems extraordinary that we need to say any of this, in 2018.

But we do. And we must.

It seems wrong that the purpose of science is something that has to be defended in 2018.

But we do. And we must.

Because right now, despite the works of all of you here and of literally tens of thousands of other people, I believe that science and research and discovery are under siege:

From funding cuts.
From political interference.
From ideological crusades.
From a brazen, anti-scientific mindset that seems to revel and glory in its lack of intellectual rigour and demands that conspiracy theories are given the same weighting as facts.

Under siege from a narrowness in attitude which fails to recognise or understand or value basic research.

Under siege from a government that doesn’t acknowledge expert advice, or scientific evidence.

When presented with the inarguable reality of rising emissions, when the United Nations gathers the world's best scientists to tell us that we need to take urgent action on climate change.

We have a national government in Australia who says:

“Don’t worry about that, we’re getting there in a canter”.

In fact, when Professor Brian Owler, the Sydney neurosurgeon announced that he would be running as the Labor candidate in the Sydney electorate of Bennelong.

One of the reasons he gave for his candidacy was his frustration with the way that science and scientists are disrespected by this government.

Now Australian politics has got a range of problems right now – you don’t need to be a quantum physicist to tell you that.

But one of the biggest issues, in my opinion, is that science and evidence and scientists are not sufficiently valued by sections of our politics and a part of our media.

Our whole country pays a price for this:

We have declining school results in science and maths, not enough coding taught to our primary school age students.
A greater uncertainty for bright post-doctoral students: nine out of ten of our research-only academics are either on limited term contracts or in casual positions - nine out of ten.
And we are falling down the global ladder in research and innovation – Israel, Korea, Japan, Germany, the United States all well ahead of us.
The science race, the discovery race – it's a race for jobs and industries and the prosperity of the future.

This country cannot rely on being a banking and resources play, we need to invest in our future and science is central to that investment.

I acknowledge the brilliance of our people, the quality of our institutions, the proud tradition hard earned of breakthroughs and discovery - but we are, right now, falling behind the pack and the world is an unforgiving place.

When you fall behind you don't catch up again.

Politics can change this - Labor can change this and we seek to do it.

Our Shadow Minister for Science, Kim Carr shared a quote with me from the scientist and artist, Robert Rathburn Wilson, who was called to testify before the US Congress in 1961.

He was asked essentially how his work could help the United States compete with the Russians.

He said:

Only from a long-range point of view, of developing technology.

But he went on to say this:

Otherwise, it has to do with: are we good painters, good sculptors, great poets? I mean all the things that we really venerate and honour in our country and are patriotic about.

He continued:

In that sense, this new knowledge has all to do with honour and country but it has nothing to do directly with defending our country except to help make it worth defending.
I think this is true for every academic discipline: from technology and natural sciences to the arts and humanities.

I won't spend a lot of time tonight talking about the current government but that answer, nearly 50 years ago reminds us all of why the current governments new Orwellian ‘National Interest Test’ is so wrong-headed.

Because supporting science and discovery and research and knowledge is always in the national interest.

That’s why when you ask Australians what their taxes ought to fund, they say hospitals, schools – and science.

If you ask Australians who they trust, they say the scientists in our universities and the CSIRO.

If you ask Australians who contributes most to society, they say, teachers, farmers, nurses, doctors, carers - and scientists.

Because Australians understand that if you care about jobs, then, yes, you care about science.

If you care about national defence and national security, then yes, you care about science.

If you care about someone who’s sick, you care about science.

If you care about the food you eat and the water you drink, the air you breathe, then yes, you care about science.

So it is therefore the job of government about science.

There's not a lot of scientists on the benches of the current parliament, I'd certainly be glad to see some more - men and women, ideally on our side.

I'd certainly be glad to see some more, men and women - ideally, on our side

But at the same time, there are plenty of people who are sitting in Parliament who didn't study economics at university.

And none of those people would ever dream of standing up in the Parliament and say they knew nothing about the economy.

Any more than they would arrogantly dismiss the warnings and advice and expertise of economists either.

This is what makes the current anti-science attitude prevailing in parts of our political discourse so galling, because if you don't know, you make it your business to learn because you know it is important.

Why has it become acceptable to stand up in Parliament and boast that you don't know anything about science and don't care much for the views of scientists?

Why is it that cultural of disinterest or even denigration is currently part of the current structure of government?

Science is not a minor portfolio, nor should it be treated as one.

Science should be at the Cabinet table for the big decisions, in the room.

I've already mentioned the risks and consequences of drift: to our economy, to our competitiveness, to the things which contribute to our Australian way of life.

And then there is the risk of losing more talented Australians.

Walking out the door, maybe right out of the country, because there's no funding certainty, no career path, and above all - no commitment or respect from the Government.

So the starting point of my commitment to you this evening is that if I'm elected as a Prime Minister, I will put science back at the centre of government

Because science is fundamental

Fundamental to the food we farm and eat
Fundamental to our cities that we live in
Fundamental to the energy that powers our homes and our industries
Fundamental to the care our loved ones receive, the cures they need.
Fundamental to the way we communicate, even to the very air we breathe.
Science is fundamental to our national security and our national prosperity.

It's fundamental to creating the jobs of the future, helping Australians navigate economic disruption.

If elected, I want to lead a government that makes it's policy decisions on the basis of the best possible evidence.

And science provides us with that evidence.

If elected, I want to lead a government with a vision for the long term, the Australia of the  2030s.

And science, research, discovery has to be at the heart of any vision for our future.

Tonight's speech is not the sum total of Labor's science and reserve policies - have more to say and announce before the next election.

And of course, we have already made substantial commitments to university infrastructure - and to more university places.

We’ve strongly backed an Australian Space Agency.

We’ve made it clear, that we choose respected, credible scientific organisations like the CSIRO and AIMS to protect our reef, not small obscure private foundations to dispense funding to well-known established science institutions.

We are preparing for the way robotics and artificial intelligence will transform our economy and the labour market – with a National Centre of A.I. Excellence, an initiative driven by our Shadow Minister for the Digital Economy, Ed Husic.

And we're determined to lead a national effort to encourage more women and girls to study and work in science, technology and research.

Because whether it is in science or in politics Australia can only reach its full potential, when we draw on the intellect and talent of our entire Australian population.

If I'm elected Prime Minister, I want to set an ambitious national target for Australia, from both our private and public sector collectively.

I want to see us have 3 per cent of our GDP devoted to research and development by 2030.

And to achieve that goal, to maximize the potential of our people and our nation, we will need strong links between private industry and publicly-funded research agencies.

I am deeply disturbed that private sector research and development has fallen 12 per cent in the past 5 years.

I can promise that Labor will go to the next election presenting to Australian people for their judgement, a clear plan to boost collaboration between public and private research and development and to improve commercialisation.

But what we also need is a more respectful, more constructive relationship between government and science.

Last year at the Academy, I sketched out the way I saw of the science and research chain:

Government provides the resources for basic research.
Universities, agencies, and institutes supply the labour, the talent, the training and the commitment
Their results inspire innovation and private investment, further research and development.
Leading to new products, new industries, new jobs, better living standards.
Tonight, I want talk about how we will make this work.

Putting science back where it belongs: at the centre of our national decision making.

So firstly, if elected, my government will sign and adopt a charter that spells out on behalf of the Australian people, what they can expect from their investment in science and what the science community can expect from government in turn.

This is a partnership agreement: built on the truth that this country is better than its current political malaise, that Australians are smarter, that Australians are braver than those who appeal to fear and selfishness and the lowest common denominator would understand.

If we are elected as a government, we affirm our fundamental respect for academic freedom.

We will not seek to muzzle researchers.

Nor will we use our privileged position in the public pulpit in front of the public gaze to mock, to denigrate, to dismiss those researchers whose evidence we find inconvenient.

We will uphold, by our words and by our actions, our belief in the integrity and value of what you do.

Central to that is respecting the advice of our world class peer review system - and protecting the Australian Research Council process.

If a minister in a Shorten Labor Government decides not to fund a recommended grant, we will explain ourselves to the public, through the Parliament, providing the reasons.

We will lift the veil of secrecy - and we will enshrine our commitment in legislation.

Openness and transparency must include the advice of science to government.

A lot of scientific evidence is put to government departments, and to ministers - and it doesn't seem to go anywhere.

The Australian people don't pay to see the best ideas and evidence sit on the shelf.

Under Labor, scientific advisers to government will be free from political interference.

We will not prejudge the advice that we expect the independent scientific advisers to come up with - nor will we criticise advice or reject it before its publication.

We will make our case, we will explain the reasons for our policy decisions, and when we do so we will cite the evidence accurately.

Shock jocks and after-dark cable television will not determine the academic or scientific direction of this nation.

And alongside our commitment to integrity and transparency, our Charter will help establish meaningful national research priorities.

Almost every other country that thinks seriously about science thinks about its contribution to national missions.

As in, what science do we need to achieve the outcomes that people want?

It's not just a matter of writing a list, it is actually about adopting it in practice as well.

It is up to government to lay out a vision for Australia to navigate to the future – science is about how we get there.

It's the high-beam lights out in front, pistons under the hood.

But it can't play that role without clarity about the big goals; and certainty that the big goals today won't be chucked away tomorrow when they start to get hard.

You deserve clarity. Your partners in industry deserve certainty.

Labor will give you that clarity – and we will give you that certainty.

And so, to help achieve this, a new Labor Government will restore the Prime Minister's Science and Innovation Council.

For Labor, that Council is one of the many proud legacies of the Hawke-Keating era.

Part of the same period of progress - remarkable progress that gave us:

The Research and Development tax incentive.
The Cooperative Research Centres.
And indeed, Questacon.
And for the first time that understanding, the understanding that science needs a comprehensive national strategy.

The Science Council’s role will be to identify our national priorities in science and research, and to make sure that we're doing all the right things.

Now I did notice today in a rare burst from the Government in anticipation of my address which they didn't that have, the Government has announced they are re-naming the Commonwealth Science Council - progress - it is a body though which hasn’t even met for the last 15 months.

For me, restoring the Science and Innovation Council means restoring it to the position of prominence it deserves in government.

It means regular meetings, proper access to ministers, including the Prime Minister.

It means the capability to bring scientists and public servants together, to develop the advice, the science the nation needs for the immediate and urgent and indeed, the the long-term.

Too often in current government practice, standard operating procedure is to hand over buckets of taxpayer cash to a handful of private consulting firms, to outsource the thinking. We’ve outsourced the brain of government to expensive consultants.

Instead, we could turn to places like this and people like you, who wouldn't know what to do with all the money that the consultants receive, because you have long traditions of academic excellence.

I want our Commonwealth public servants and our researchers to work together on the advice that a national government needs to navigate the future.

In the United States, the equivalent of the Prime Minister's Science Council receives policy advice from joint teams selected from government and science for their expertise.

So we propose to enter a Memorandum of Understanding with the Australian Academy of Science leading other learned academies, to establish a National Scientific Expert Panel, working directly to the Prime Minister's Science and Innovation Council.

The Expert Panel would develop policy advice on topics which affect the lives of Australians today and as importantly ,in the decades ahead.

It will assemble joint teams of researchers in all the disciplines relevant to the topic - and our Commonwealth public officers – experts who work together intensively on each project.

Experts will be chosen to meet the needs of the specific project, as well as the bigger need of bridging the science to government gap.

We want to include early and mid-career researchers, who contribute their expertise while also gaining first-hand and valuable knowledge of how government works.

And we will recruit public servants at junior and senior levels, so they can learn in turn how science works.

The topics for the Expert Panel will be commissioned by the Prime Minister's Science Council - or indeed, they can be generated within the scientific community of Australia, through the Academy of Science.

Because this is a partnership, it's a two way street.

When the reports are returned, they will be made available to the public.

We want the Expert Panel, and the Council, to have the influence and prominence to attract outstanding talent.

Distinguished leaders, and the cream of rising talent.

And we commit to meet our end of the bargain: taking up the reports, taking them seriously, and taking them to the public.

Now, having spoke about a charter and our Science Council and Expert Panel, it's about repairing the broken relationship between science and government.

But I recognise that if we are to meet our ambitious national goal for research and development - three per cent of GDP by 2030 - then we need to repair the fragmentation of the system itself.

What I mean by that is the demarcation between the departments and the agencies and the institutions, it makes it very hard to track the $10.3 billion currently invested by taxpayers in science.

And it also means too much of your time is spent petitioning for different pockets and patches of funding, rather than conducting your important work.

So I’m pleased to announce that along with our Charter and our new advisory structure, that we would establish the first, root-and-branch National Inquiry into science, research and innovation for a generation.

Now, to be fair, in recent years we have seen a procession of what I think could be described as ad-hoc government reviews - hastily conducted and even more quickly disregarded.

What I'm talking about tonight is different, it's about building for the long term, a framework that draws on international best practice.

Reg Ansett, when he was purchasing the new 727 jets for Ansett in the late 60s said "this is the best technology in the world so it's only just good enough for Ansett."

I'd like to borrow from that view about international best practice. If it's best in the world, then it's good enough for us - perhaps.

We want to see a new direction where experts drive decision-making.

We’ll be guided in particular by recent reviews undertaken by the governments in Canada and the United Kingdom.

Now I’m pleased to say that former Chief Scientist and  Vice-Chancellor of ANU, Professor Ian Chubb, will be leading Labor’s Inquiry and a number of other eminent Australians have agreed to join this advisory group.

Professor Christobel Saunders, respected oncologist at the University of Western Australia.
TV figure, Professor Emma Johnston,  also the Dean of Science at UNSW and a leading authority on marine ecology.
Professor Karen Hussey, the Director of the Centre for Policy Futures at UQ, an expert on climate change.
Professor Andrew Holmes, a Fellow at the Academy of Science, a renowned expert of course on light-emitting polymers.
Mr Phil Clark, a respected member of the JP Morgan Advisory Council.
Professor Glyn Davis, former Vice-Chancellor of University of Melbourne and currently a distinguished Professor at the ANU’s Crawford School.

This is only a beginning – but I acknowledge for these eminent scientists to talk and be part of a Labor initiative when we're still in Opposition, acknowledges the great hunger in the broader scientific community to just get on with it - to restore the system, to make the system work.

We will talk to many people - that is the style of a Labor administration.

In conclusion, I’ve spoken tonight about the risk of Australia falling behind in the science race – globally, but domestically too.

I've spoken about how our government needs to better value science, evidence and expertise – to place it at the centre of our decision-making.

I'm conscious tonight that I've spoken very generally about the value of science to an audience who already knew the value of science.

But if we are to change the political discourse, of we are to move science to the centre of the national political agenda, a priority for science, then we have to make the case to the broader public.

But this is a door upon which when we push, will open easily.

The Australian people, I put to you, get the value of science - they get it far more than the political leaders.

I've spoke tonight about some of the process which we want to adopt to anchor our commitment to science solidly.

A new Charter, respecting independence, and transparency. More independence, greater transparency and a new spirit of partnership.

All this driven by a once-in-a-generation inquiry, with the experts in charge.

I suspect that for many of you, science and politics sometimes are like two completely separate worlds – the difference between ballet and cage fighting perhaps - but when you think about it, we share a common set of challenges, don't we?

In an age where the sum of human knowledge is searchable by a smartphone, it’s never been easier to be better informed, there’s never been more potential for shared understanding.

Yet what do we see? Deeper division, more vitriol.

And an aggressively anti-scientific, anti-knowledge, anti-education movement masquerading as an attack on the so-called ‘elites’.

Inevitably, there are some who argue the internet itself is to blame.

That the quantity of unchecked, unsourced, unfiltered content makes it impossible for people to judge and evaluate what’s real and what’s not.

A Swiss scientist by the name of Conrad Gessner was one of the first to warn of the ‘confusing and harmful’ effects of information overload -  albeit he did that in German in the 16th Century –  he was arguing against the spread of the printing press and the spread of books.

Over the centuries we’ve heard variations on the same theme about public education, about radio and about television.

But no argument for censorship or selective access has ever been a match for the human appetite for new knowledge.

So in this era of ‘Fake News’ and false equivalence - all of us, politicians, parliamentarians and scientists and researchers - are grappling with a more fragmented, more cynical audience.

We are all trying to work out how to communicate and advocate in the noisy, fast-moving world of mass-media and mass-information.

I feel most keenly, the responsibility to win the argument on its merit. I think we all have a responsibility to win our arguments on their merits -  to prove our solutions are the best, not simply claiming that we know best.

We cannot control the madness of the conspiracy theories peddled in the dank corners of the dark web.

But what we can do is take control of the things that are within our reach and are within our control.

People can over complicate politics. There are the things that we cannot affect, and there are the things that we can.

In this room, and well beyond it, the Australian scientific community - we have policy-makers, we have scientists, we have educators and leaders in the field of knowledge.

What we can do is equip Australians with the tools to separate the propaganda from the data.

In an age of climate deniers, anti-vaxxers, birthers, truthers, trolls - we need to put a premium on the scientific mindset, on the value of evidence.

Not just for the health of our discourse and our democracy, but for the health of our society: with science and research drawing that virtuous circle, fulfilling the generational contract of passing on a better standard of living, a better quality of life to our kids, than what we inherited from our parents.

Some people say that Labor is favourite to win the next election, and we should do nothing but sit back and watch the Government implode.

I have a very different conclusion, and that's why I've spoken to you tonight.

A lot of Australians are assessing whether or not our system is broken - whether or not their individual actions can have consequences in the direction of the nation.

It is a great responsibility that we have to lift the eyes of the nation to a bigger and better Australia.

I think this is possible.

We want science and the importance of science to be in the national political agenda.

I need your voices to help shape the public debate, to be heard in the national conversation on the questions that matter.

And I can promise you at least this - that when it comes to Labor’s plan for a more prosperous and more secure Australia – I understand that science must be at the centre of this goal.

I'd like to acknowledge the traditional owners of this land upon which we meet, I pay my respects to their elders both past and present.

I acknowledge all my colleagues here, including the Minister.

I’m glad Our Watch is back here visiting Federal Parliament.

It is impressive that so many parliamentarians make the time to pay respect to this issue, to be here tonight.

And I should say that Chloe, who is an Our Watch ambassador, sends her apologies. Yet again she is raising the family and I get to be up here.

I’ve been attending this event for five years as Opposition Leader and I reflect upon the progress that you have made in that time.

I don't think there can be any doubt that people are starting to change the way we talk about violence against women, about family violence. And I don't just mean as parliamentarians but as people.

We don’t metaphorically pull down the blinds and turn up the TV so we can't hear what's happening next door. We don't use polite euphemisms, we don’t change the subject or shuffle uncomfortably.

I believe it's changed in the way that journalists cover it, the way it's reported, I think it's changed in the way it gets policed.

We’ve changed the way that we look at this issue, violence against women and family violence, as a society.

We've perhaps taken off the blindfold and we look a bit more closely. We are, I believe, more often than not a nation who no longer turns the proverbial blind eye or deaf ear.

We don't any longer choose to ignore violence against women because it happens in the family home, or dismiss it as just a ‘family matter’.

This is good news. We should celebrate the good news. Real change in language, real change in attitudes.

Even to the point of unthinking and crude remarks, locker room talk, footy club talk, no longer allowed in our leaders or public figures.

But for all of that, we can't escape a hard truth: as we’ve just heard, Australian women are dying at the hands of people who say they love them. The hands of their partners or ex-partners.

Every week. Everywhere.

It doesn't distinguish between postcode or ethnicity or wealth.

But what I think about tonight, as we stand here, is what will be happening right now in homes across Australia.

There will be Australian women who will have nowhere to go, nowhere safe, who will be torn between being safe or protecting the children.

I have no doubt that right now there will be mums and and kids looking at the clock, dad's not home yet, will he be all right? Will he have had too much to drink? Will he be angry? Will he fall asleep at the table - or will he take out whatever he has on us?

There will be signals in households where kids coming home later will know if the light is on or off, or if a bag is moved on the veranda, is dad in a good mood or is he in a bad mood.

There will be children tonight who will turn up the music in their rooms as they try and do their homework so they don't hear the yelling. So they don't hear their mum bearing the wrath of the father so that the mother can protect the kids.

Too little has changed for too many too many of our families.

So tonight it is great that we are here. I just wish we could wrap our collective arms around all of those people I just described, because there'll be many more people experiencing that, than this.

I have to say though, that when Our Watch comes to Parliament, you lift us out of the day-to-day.

Instead, you ask us, you challenge us, and you force us to think: what sort of Australia do we want to be?

This is how Labor sees the issue of family violence: it is a test of our national character.

We’ve been pushing the policy debate.

We are arguing strongly to enshrine family violence leave and national employment standards. Ten days paid leave.

And for those who say that paid leave will incentivise people to claim it, I've never met a victim of family violence who would rather go through the violence just to get the leave.

We have pushed for five years, and I am pleased that the government has agreed on this, banning unrepresented violent perpetrators from the ability to cross-examine the partners they’ve already injured.

And we will keep pushing for better support for safe accommodation.

That's why if we are elected as the next government Labor will develop and deliver a new ten year plan, a national plan to prevent violence against women and children.

We will establish a national plan advisory group: survivors, advocates, experts, counsellors, community lawyers. The people who’ve seen the faults in the system from the inside. The people who know what is needed and where.

And we will continue to prioritise more dollars and more resources into prevention efforts and frontline services.

Because when it comes to violence against women and family violence, more money does make a difference.

So tonight, I am pleased to announce that if elected, a Labor Government will commit an additional $18 million to the Keeping Women Safe in their Homes program, so it can continue up to 2022.

This is a program which helps women experiencing family violence to stay in their own home with expert safety assessments, new locks on the doors, new alarms, safety phones and the like.

Why should it be that the violent perpetrator is rewarded with the home and the victim has to leave?

Why should it be the person fleeing the violence who has got to pick up the pieces? To find somewhere new to stay, sort out the arrangements, the collection of the kids, work out what they can do with their work. Such a burden, such an injury upon injury.

Reversing this unfair balance of power is an initiative that is worth persevering with and it is worth committing to now. Because why should we ask the frontline workers to be unsure if their funding will be there next year?

I want the frontline staff of Australia who work protecting women and kids not to have to worry about do they get paid at the end of the month, but to be able to keep contributing that remarkable, emotional, physical, intellectual effort just to support Australian women.

Labor will make sure the funding is going to be there to carry on.

In this place a lot of promises are made. That's what we do, we make promises.

One reason why I am confident that this promise can be kept is because, if we are elected as a government, not only will my Deputy be Tanya Plibersek but we will have 50 percent of our MPs who will be women and they are just not going to allow anything less than this to be the case.

I want to thank Our Watch for the advocacy, the leadership, the passion, the evidence.

Let's hope that every year when you return to parliament we have more change and better progress to celebrate.

And let's spare a thought, as I know we all will, for those women and children tonight for whom our help has not yet arrived.

Despite the relatively few members of the Government attending in this chamber at this time, this is a significant development, the agreement to this resolution.

It is a win for Labor, it is a win for the crossbenchers and more importantly than that, this is a win for the people of Australia.

Today this parliament, in the House of Representatives, has for the first time endorsed the call for a National Integrity Commission. That is, the Government has now moved its position.

It was in January this year that I announced that a Labor Government would establish a National Integrity Commission.

Not because I believe that this parliament has a particular problem with corruption, because if any Members were aware of it, they would report it.

Indeed the Members and Senators that I have had the privilege to get to know over the past ten years, from all points of view, are dedicated people here to make a difference.

But I and Labor, have been advocating for a National Integrity Commission because we believe it is essential to rebuild trust in our public institutions.

People in Australia are concerned that politics seems to be about politicians looking after themselves and not the people.

We have been advocating a National Integrity Commission to rebuild some of that lost trust that the Australian people have in their democratic system.

We need a National Integrity Commission to restore some faith in our politics and our democracy.

To make it clear that there's not one rule for the politicians and the Commonwealth Government on one hand, and another rule for everybody else.

I welcome today the Liberal and National Government reversing their previous opposition to a national anti-corruption commission.

Now of course, Australians do have the right to ask how sincerely and strongly the Prime Minister believes in a National Integrity Commission, or if he is just focused on protecting his job.

This should not have taken so long.

Clearly that there are so few Members of the Government here, shows the reluctance that the Government has to endorse an anti-corruption commission but nonetheless, they have got to the right conclusion.
But it should not have taken the fear of losing a vote on the floor of the Parliament for the Government to be dragged - fingernails on the concrete into the chamber to endorse an anti-corruption commission, a National Integrity Commission.

But it is better to be late than not to be at all supporting an anti-corruption commission.
We now have an opportunity for the whole parliament to work together to help design the best possible National Integrity Commission.

Labor has said that the National Integrity Commission will be based upon the following seven design principals:

For the Commission to operate as an independent statutory body, with sufficient resources to ensure it's able to carry out its functions regardless of the government of the day.

Secondly, the Commission would be constituted by one Commissioner and two Deputy Commissioners, each of whom would serve for a single, fixed, five-year term.

Further, the Commission will have sufficiently broad jurisdiction and freedom of action to operate as a standing Royal Commission into serious and systemic corruption by Commonwealth parliamentarians or their staff, public servants, statutory office holders, the Commonwealth judiciary and the Governor-General.
The Commission should be granted the investigative powers of a Royal Commission, including search and surveillance powers, the power to compel witnesses and subpoena documents, and carry out its own investigations with warrant oversight by the Federal Court.

Further, while the presumption will be that the hearings will be held in private, the Commission will have discretion to hold hearings in public where it determines it is in the public interest to do so.

Labor would continue to consult on appropriate threshold for such hearings in conjunction with the Government and indeed the crossbench.

The Commission should only be empowered to make findings of fact. Any findings that should constitute criminal conduct should be referred to the AFP or the Commonwealth Department of Public Prosecutions.

A bipartisan Joint Standing Committee of Parliament would be established to oversee the Commission, and have the power to require the Commission to provide information about its work.

This committee should also be responsible for appointing the commissioners and the Commission would also report to Parliament on its performance annually.

The time has come, in fact it is long past the hour for this Parliament to establish a National Integrity Commission.

What we seek to do is make a powerful statement about restoring faith in our democracy and it will be so much stronger and much more meaningful if the whole Parliament has a say in the design.

This has to be about better politics, not more partisanship.

It is why I wrote to the current Prime Minister last week, proposing that as a first step the Attorney-General and the Shadow Attorney-General sit down with members of the crossbench to talk about the design principles, including those that I've outlined.

I regret to say that the former Member for Wentworth, when he was Prime Minister rejected our offer. I do acknowledge that the current Prime Minister for all sorts of political reasons, has nonetheless arrived at the correct conclusion.

Labor has been willing to co-operate in the national interest, it’s now time for the Government to do the same.

It is important that whilst the Government in its urgent need to seek to avoid a vote which it might lose, has drawn the right conclusion on establishing an anti-corruption commission. It is important that the Government does not therefore cynically sit back and do nothing further on this matter.

It is important now that we get on and do the job.

If Labor was to win the next election we will do the job in the manner which we've outlined, but there is no need to wait to the next election to do it.

What we need to do is help restore and rebuild some faith and trust in our democracy.

We should treat this mission with the same seriousness that we treat national security and on the same co-operative, bipartisan basis.

The people of Australia know this matters, they want better from their parliament, they want more from their Government and they  deserve much more from the political system.

We understand today is a very significant day.

We understand that because the Government has entered minority status and the Member for Wentworth is an independent, that the Government face the very real prospect that despite its wishes and its opposition to a National Integrity Commission, the resolution in the Senate would be supported in the House of Representatives.

I am pleased that the Government, faced with defeat on the floor of the House of Representatives, has chosen the wiser and more pragmatic path of stopping its opposition to a National Integrity Commission.

But having said that, we should now not see this change, this reversal of position, this change of heart from the Government, as being an excuse to dismiss this matter, vote for it, and then hope that it never comes back.

I make the offer to the Government, the Attorney-General and Shadow Attorney-General in consultation with the crossbench, using some of the design principles that we've outlined, and other principles as others may see fit to bring forward to the discussion - let us work together and get this done.

But this is a very, very significant proposition and I move that the resolution of the Senate be agreed to.

First of all I’d like to acknowledge the traditional owners of this land, and I pay my respects to elders past and present.

I’d like to acknowledge the presence of my Shadow Treasurer, Chris Bowen, our Shadow Minister for Energy and Climate Change Mark Butler and our Parliamentary Secretary in this area, Pat Conroy.

Today I’m here to outline Labor’s plan for more renewables, cheaper power and new jobs.

I’m here today with a plan to put families and small businesses and manufacturers back in charge of their power bills.

I’m here today with a plan to make our nation a veritable powerhouse for the new jobs, the new industries and new investment driven by renewable, cleaner power.

Labor’s plans ticks three vital boxes:

Affordability - for industry and households
Reliability - through new sources of generation and storage and better transmission and distribution.
And sustainability - cleaner power, cutting pollution
Today is about outlining our vision for the future, for the future of Australia in the 2030s.

It is 50 per cent renewable energy by 2030
It is cutting pollution by 45 per cent by 2030
Cutting power bills by hundreds of dollars a year
And creating tens of thousands of new renewable energy jobs
Our plan is right for the environment and it is good for business.

And our plan will deliver for industry, for families and for workers.

We will help industry by providing a clear plan that provides investor certainty, and building a more efficient and integrated energy network.

Upgrading the essential infrastructure that generates, transmits and distributes cleaner and more reliable power around our nation.

We will deliver for families, helping households reduce their power bills. 

We will take real action on climate change, because it’s vital not only for our economy, it’s fair for our kids in the future.

We will ensure that Australian workers benefit from the move to renewables, while guaranteeing a just transition for people and communities affected by economic change.

And if we are elected as the next government of Australia at the next election, we will begin this work in our very first week.

I say that because our home Australia has already lost too much time to toxic politics, to Liberal infighting and acts of personal revenge dressed-up as policy disputes.

There is not another month, not another minute to waste. Our nation simply needs to get moving on the question of energy and climate.

So I’m not here today to launch another argument about ends and means.

Nor am I going to waste a whole lot of time talking about the other side.

The simple point I want to make is this.

We offered bipartisanship on an Emissions Intensity Scheme.

Then we offered bipartisanship on a Clean Energy Target.

And then we offered bipartisanship on the National Energy Guarantee.

And we are prepared to offer bipartisanship again.

The National Energy Guarantee is not the scheme that we would have designed, we’ve never said it’s perfect.

But we have always recognised the value of a market-based mechanism where the basic framework is supported by both sides of the parliament.

This helps provide certainty and confidence for investors, for construction, for new generation projects to finally move ahead.

We’ve lost five years. Five years we cannot get back.

Five years of uncertainty and infighting have driven up power prices for families. And for small and medium sized businesses the power prices have gone up and up and up.

So let’s deal in the facts:

Electricity prices have increased by nearly 19 per cent in the last three years alone. That’s 3 times faster than wages growth.
In Sydney, they’ve gone up 26 per cent.
High gas prices are disastrous. They are still putting pressure on local manufacturers, with some still being quoted up to $12 per gigajoule.
And this is combined with five years of inaction and five years of denial on climate change:
betraying our farmers jeopardising the Reef threatening our neighbours in the Pacific and putting our environment in jeopardy for the next generation.
The latest report from the IPCC is unambiguous: climate change is no longer an emergency, it is a disaster.

So, frankly, the single most important thing about energy and climate policy right now is to have one.

The single most important thing about energy and climate policy is to have one.

And surely the best way to resolve some of the differences over the substance is by actually debating and amending the legislation in the parliament itself.

So today I re-issue Labor’s invitation for bipartisanship. We are prepared to keep the National Energy Guarantee on the table.

We want a meaningful National Energy Guarantee that actually lowers prices, reduces pollution and boosts renewables.

The current Treasurer designed the NEG framework, the current Prime Minister was one of its most forceful advocates.

The Coalition party room debated and voted to back the National Energy Guarantee not once, not twice, but three times.

Our Parliament could debate and vote on this before Christmas, if the Government were so inclined.

And if I am elected as Prime Minister, I undertake that I will sit down with the new Opposition Leader - and the crossbench - to talk about a way we can move forward with this framework.

So let me be very clear: we will work with the Coalition but we will not wait for them.

Our willingness to co-operate on a market mechanism doesn’t mean that everything else gets put on hold.

I am not prepared to allow climate sceptics in the Coalition to exert a permanent, destructive veto over Australia’s energy, environmental and economic future.

I’ll be guided by the experts, not the usual suspects from the Coalition climate sceptic brigade. 

Furthermore, the absence of political consensus cannot mean the continued absence of a plan for energy policy. 

Consensus is not about the lowest common denominator. It’s about setting a direction and bringing people with you.

If I’m elected Prime Minister, I will not sit around and wait for the Liberals and the Nationals to stop arguing about whether or not climate change is real.

Labor will act, we will act, I will act - to lower prices, to cut pollution, to boost renewables and create jobs.

A Labor Government I lead will be prepared to directly underwrite and invest in cleaner, cheaper power for Australia.

We will prioritise renewables as well as supporting firming technologies like storage and gas.

Labor will invest in new generation, in better transmission and distribution – because we realise that this vital nation-building work cannot be left up to the big power companies.

Building and modernising Australia’s energy network cannot be put off –and it cannot be simply privatised.
It requires national leadership.

This is why Labor will end the energy and climate change wars.

We will implement a 10-year Energy Investment Plan, to drive and attract investment, to lower prices, to cut pollution and create jobs.

Labor’s plan will underpin investor confidence by providing a long term policy roadmap to achieve our 2030 renewable energy and emissions reductions targets. 

Our investment plan will be guided by experts, using the Australian Energy Market Operator’s Integrated System Plan as an energy modernisation blueprint.

We will use a range of tools to invest in projects and underwrite contracts for clean power generation, as well as firming technologies like storage and gas. 

These mechanisms could include concessional loans, equity and ‘contract for difference’ auction schemes that are used in other jurisdictions.

The United Kingdom has had success with their version of contract for difference.

And the Victorian Government recently held its first contract for difference auction, which delivered long term price certainty to clean energy projects, and resulted in a contract prices almost half the average Victorian wholesale electricity price in 2017-18.

And to co-ordinate this investment and to guarantee best value for taxpayer money - we will turbo-charge the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, doubling its original capital with an additional $10 billion over 5 years.

The CEFC has a great track record of backing value-for-money projects and delivering a positive return on investment. 

Our plan is simply about obtaining the best value from existing and new energy resources while delivering least cost, most reliable energy to the consumers.

Of course, it’s not just generation. Transmission and distribution are vital too.

Technology is fast moving away from the model of one plant in one location powering the whole state.

Instead, communities are going to be generating much more of their own power in their own neighbourhood.

We need a national grid and network that supports this, helping the movement of what Bloomberg call ‘base-cost’ renewables.

So today I’m pleased to announce that, if elected, a Labor Government will establish a new $5 billion fund for Energy Security and Modernisation.

This fund will facilitate and finance essential upgrades to Australia’s transmission and distribution systems.
We already know the work required - the Australian Energy Market Operator has mapped out its Integrated Systems Plan.

This co-ordinated and comprehensive set of projects will form the basis of Labor’s national energy infrastructure to-do list.

Potential projects include:

Upgrading interconnectors across Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland.
And building new ones – a second connection across Bass Strait and a new link between South Australia and New South Wales.
We will support strategic storage initiatives, like Snowy 2.0 and Tasmania’s plans to act as the ‘Battery of the Nation’.
And I’m very interested in the potential of new pipeline networks to help develop Northern Australia, and deliver affordable, desperately needed gas to the east coast manufacturers.

And as the experts have recommended, Labor will create Renewable Energy Zones from Tasmania to Far North Queensland.

This overdue modernisation agenda, this vision for modernisation, combined with our implementation of the Reliability Guarantee, is the best way to make sure that every part of our country has access to energy that’s more affordable and more reliable.

Now, it’s not just Australia’s energy infrastructure that urgently needs an overhaul. 

Australia’s energy efficiency, the usage we get out of each unit of energy, is poor and getting worse.

This year, the International Energy Agency ranked Australia last out of all the developed nations in energy efficiency policy and performance. We were ranked last.

We need to turn this around, and to turn this around, we’re going to free-up the Australian Renewable Energy Agency, ARENA, to support energy efficiency across the board, not just projects that involve renewables.

Because cutting waste, improving efficiency should be a priority for all forms of power from coal to gas to wind and solar.

And we’re going to put a particular focus on helping local industry get more bang for their buck. We’re going to make available $20,000 grants to Australian manufacturers who want expert advice on reducing energy waste.

Long overdue action on energy productivity and efficiency is micro-economic reform - it’s a way for business to cut costs and boost competitiveness.

Labor’s Energy Plan will help industry and families achieve lower power bills.

We’ll put Australian gas users first:

We'll have a  permanent gas export control trigger
New powers for the ACCC to crack down on anti-competitive behaviour that inflates prices
And a National Interest Test for all new gas projects
And a Domestic Gas Review Board to oversee these measures. 
And on August the 19th, we announced our plans on price-capping:

We'll be requiring a default offer that directly benefits 1.2 million customers and we said that we would mandate simple, clear benchmarks in the power offers and contracts.

I think that one of the best things, the most effective things that we can do into the future is help more Australians access the opportunities of rooftop solar and battery storage.

My vision is for Australia to be a clean energy powerhouse and I also want more Australian households to be powered by clean energy.

When it comes to renewable energy, the people are ahead of the politicians. The Australian people have literally voted with their feet.

In 2007, seven thousand houses in Australia had a solar panel on their roof. In the next few weeks this number will pass 2 million households.

Demand for installation is at record levels.

Panels keep getting cheaper, their efficiency keeps getting better and our local industry keeps increasing in this area.

Australians with rooftop solar aren’t out-there greenies living in trees, indulging in some sort of, post-material eco-fantasy.

They are just ordinary families, putting themselves back in charge of their energy usage and dramatically reducing their power bills too. And a lot of them would be pleased to be able to do their bit on climate change.
When I talk to people with rooftop solar around the country, they generally only have one regret - they wish they’d installed it earlier.

And for all the advances in the efficiency and output of photovoltaic technology, undoubtedly the biggest change for the cost-saving potential of solar power has been the advent of residential battery storage.

When you think about it, and I'm a bit of a student of history, the computer processor was an extraordinary piece of technology in its own right.

But it would not have so swiftly and dramatically changed the way we live and work and study and interact had it not been for the internet.

I think this is what affordable battery storage means for renewable energy in homes around this country.
Solar panels plus battery storage are the conservative, common-sense option.

What could be more conservative than storing energy. It means that when we talk about renewable energy, if you have a renewable energy storage goal, what once seemed radical is actually the conservative option.

It means that power generated during the day when parents are at work, the kids are at school and there is little demand for energy, can be stored and put to use in the evening when the appliances may be on and the computers are on.

It just means, I'm pleased to say the end of that silly slogan about solar not working when the sun isn’t shining.

What’s more, when a household installs a battery storage system, they don’t just save money for themselves through lower bills.

Homes with a battery storage system reduce pressure and demand on the entire national grid, and they even put power back in.

It's an excellent outcome, isn't it? Lower bills and more reliable supply for all Australians.

It is why I’m proud to announce that a Labor Government will set a national target of 1 million new household battery storage systems by 2025.

The Smart Energy Council estimates that household batteries would enable most homes to save over 60 per cent of their bill.

That’s over 60 per cent – that's not even ‘up to’ 60 per cent.

This is the kind of meaningful relief, game-changing relief in people's cost-of-living pressures that will deliver for every Australian battling flat wages and rising cost-of-living.

This is not a minor reduction, generated by ringing-around providers for that special offer where they halve the discount, on the price they just doubled.

Real savings of hundreds, potentially even thousands, of dollars a year, every year. It is a game-changer.
And to ensure that under Labor, more families save more money, we will help households overcome the biggest obstacle to installing their own system – that is of course the upfront cost.

Over the long term, a battery system pays for itself through the savings you make on your power bill.
But for a lot of families, the one-off expense is still too large to manage.

This is where a Labor Government I lead will step up.

If elected, from 1 January 2020,  we will provide a $2000 rebate for 100,000 battery installations in households with an income of less than $180,000.

As well as offering low-cost financing through the CEFC.

Our big boost for battery systems will help manufacturers scale up, and therefore with our economy of scale, bring the cost of installation down, meaning more and more families will be able to cut their bills with battery storage.

And this boom in household batteries will deliver benefits to all electricity users by cutting peak demand and average prices.

Our rebate will be limited to one battery system per home, and it will not be available for households that have already received a subsidy from forward thinking state schemes.

Batteries will have to meet the highest safety and product standards and installers will have to be licensed electricians with additional, specialised training.

And we will provide $10 million to boost the Clean Energy Regulator’s auditing and inspection regime.
I’ve spent my life representing workers – I will always insist on the strongest possible workplace health and safety standards.

Now Labor also believes that every Australian, not just home owners, deserve the opportunity to benefit from cheaper, cleaner power.

This includes the millions of Australians who are not owner-occupiers living in the traditional detached house. That’s everyone from people in apartments to renters, to those in community or social housing.

So I say today as a starting point, we are going to commit $100 million to create a Community Power Network and 10 Community Power Hubs around Australia - to provide legal and technical advice, as well as start-up funding, for local renewables projects.

We will put communities back in control.

We want to connect the apartment buildings and community housing and commission flats in our cities to the opportunities of renewable energy and storage.

We are offering the Australian people the chance to be part of the fight against climate change – and to do it in a way that is economically responsible.

What we offer is good for families, good for the nation and good for the planet.

We are giving people the chance to contribute, to do something about climate change and their electricity bills.

This is how you get prices down for real – not by dragging energy companies in for another televised talking-to over a cup of tea and a digestive biscuit.

And not with some thought bubble about some Venezuelan style divestiture, which will only succeed in taking the big stick to investment certainty and jobs.

Today, I’ve outlined Labor’s plans:

To directly underwrite and invest in cleaner, cheaper, power to help achieve 50 per cent renewables by 2030.

To build the national energy infrastructure of the future: the pipelines, the pumped-hydro, the interconnectors and the storage.

And to drive an acceleration to worlds best technology, to future technology and household battery technology, for homeowners and renters alike.

This is a plan for lower power prices and for less pollution.

But it also represents an exciting opportunity, a vision for new investment, new jobs and new industry.

Between now and 2050, our host Bloomberg estimates that US $8.4 trillion will be invested, worldwide, in wind and solar energy alone.

I want our country Australia, our home Australia to be the number one destination for these dollars. 

We are competing with the rest of the world and we have a desperate need at home to get our energy policy and our climate policy right.

I want the tens of thousands of jobs which will be created around the world, I want them for our people and our country.

Bloomberg is also projecting a seismic shift in the global energy mix, from two-thirds fossil fuels in 2017 to two-thirds renewables by 2050.

It’s a simple equation for Australia: more renewables equals more jobs.

New modelling from the Australia Institute forecasts the creation of up to 60,000 new direct jobs in the clean energy industry, through construction and installation, if we reach 50 per cent renewables by 2030. 

Plus there's another 12,000 and greater direct jobs in operation and maintenance. 

It's an exciting vision.

One thing we ask as parents is where will the jobs of the future be for our kids.

Well there's tens of thousands of quality jobs, well-paid jobs by having Australian standards and maximising local content.

And consider the jobs created by expanding battery storage.

You may be aware that Australia is already the world’s biggest supplier of lithium.

We produce every metal needed to make a lithium battery here in this country.  

With our skilled workforce, our high-tech mining industry, our high-quality science and research community, we are perfectly positioned to make this rapidly-growing industry our own - no longer exporting the pieces and paying inflated prices to buy them back.

I have been to Townsville and Gladstone, Perth and Darwin - they are all queuing-up to make themselves battery manufacturing capitals.

But we will only achieve this if we move now. You only get one chance to get in on the ground floor.

If the politics of the nation gets bogged down for another three and four years of infighting, of inertia instead of energy policy, the moment will be missed.

The world is very unforgiving for nations who do not take the opportunities that are presented to them. 

That’s why if we are elected – our plans for direct investment will not be hostage to the climate sceptics in the parliament.

We will act to bring down power prices and to boost these new blue collar and green collar industries.

And in a time of rapid economic and industrial change and disruption, only Labor will make it a priority to help workers and communities affected, adapt to the transition.

I’ve been Labor Leader for over five years now, but I’d only been in the job a couple of months when Prime Minister Abbott and Treasurer Hockey goaded the auto manufacturing industry into leaving this country.

I’ll never forget it, I’m still angry about that missed opportunity.

It threw callously, thousands of productive, proud, skilled workers onto the scrap heap of change - and there was no planning for their future.

In fact, they were just told they had been ‘liberated’ from their jobs.

I do remember how many government ministers said, after the fact, ‘the closures were inevitable’.

Well, tell that to the other countries who are still making automobiles.

They didn't think we were clever, they just thought they were lucky - there was one less competitor for them.

And of course, there was no planning about what happened next, there was nothing in place to support the transition for communities like Elizabeth.

I do not want to allow this failure to be repeated, in any sector, in any part of the country.

At present, 75 per cent of the coal-fired power stations in Australia are already operating beyond their original design life.

We’re talking about huge metal structures, facilities built in some case in the 1960s and 1970s.  

When Hazelwood closed it was over 50 years old, Yallourn and Liddell are both in their 40s.

By and large we don’t drive cars which are 40 years old, we don’t travel in planes built back in the 70s, our hospitals, our classrooms, our defence forces don’t rely on technology that came out before colour TV.

It’s beyond naïve to simply think that we can expect these facilities to power us all the way through the next century.

Of course, coal will be an important part of Australia’s energy mix for many years to come.

But there is no room for complacency – no excuse for it at all. 

These stations represent important sections of regional economies.

Governments of all persuasion owe it to everyone involved to have a plan in place well before the time that these plants eventually close.

Firstly, in line with the recommendations of the Finkel Review, Labor will require all large generators to provide at least 3 years notice of closure.

And a new Labor Government will establish a Just Transition Authority to plan and co-ordinate the structural adjustment for the workers and the communities affected.

The Just Transition Authority has one profound overarching mission – to ensure that we leave no-one behind.

No community, no worker, no family, no small business or contractor, left behind.  

This will be a statutory body with representatives from industry, from the union movement and local communities and local business all having a seat at the table.

We will legislate to create a regional framework for pooled redundancies, with mandatory participation from the generators.

The Just Transition Authority would also help structure training and re-training assistance.

And it would help design and drive economic diversification:

Bringing forward local infrastructure;
Providing business support advice;
And co-ordinating invest from established funding pools the Commonwealth already has – including, but not limited to the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, the Export Finance and Insurance Agency and our Advanced Manufacturing Future Fund.
-      
I think perhaps we would all agree that the worst failure in politics in the past 10 years has been leadership instability.

But if that has been the worst failure of our democratic system in the past 10 years, I submit that a close second has been the inability to move forward on climate and energy policy.

Really, the two are inextricably linked.

Labor has put the instability of the past well behind us, we are united, we are stable.

And we are ready to resolve the climate and energy policy paralysis which is holding Australian back, damaging our environment and making families and businesses pay more.

My message to the people of Australia is that my party, Labor, recognises what needs to be done and we are ready to just get on with it.  

We’re prepared to work with the Coalition on this right now, to adapt and adopt, their own mechanism.

But if all the Liberals have to offer is a dishonest scare campaign, 10 years old. 
If they cannot lead and refuse to follow, then they should just get out of the way and just let someone who wants to lead get on with the job.  

Labor’s plan is right for the environment, it's good for business.

Our plan is built on the hard work of the best experts, from the Chief Scientist to the Australian Energy Market Operator to the CSIRO -  and has periodically been supported by the current Government.

If we are elected to serve as the next government of Australia:


We will build the essential energy infrastructure to power industry and manufacturing.
We will help households genuinely cut their power bills with more renewables and more storage.
We will support a Just Transition Authority for workers and businesses and communities who are disrupted and affected – while we drive a new wave of renewable jobs.
And we will take real action on climate change, because that’s the duty we owe to our nation and to the next generation.

It's an exciting vision for the next decade and beyond.

More renewables, cheaper power - these are fundamental to our vision for the future.

We should be an energy super power, we should be the number one destination for investment in renewable power.

We should have lower prices than we currently pay.

We should have more provision for the workers of Australia affected by change or whose jobs are jeopardised by high power bills. 

We should be doing more for families to take control over their cost of living.

All that we need to do is ensure that we are determined to hand on a better deal to the next generation.
We want to deliver a fair go for all Australians and we look forward to doing it with Australia's cooperation and assistance.

I'd like to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet, and I pay my respects to their elders past and present.

I'd also like to acknowledge my colleague, Senator Doug Cameron. He'll be here for the Q&A session. I have to attend the funeral of the man who was killed in Bourke Street after this, but Doug will be here to answer all the questions that I raise in my speech. 

I want to thank the Community Housing Industry Association for bringing together such a distinguished group of experts and advocates – people interested in the future of this country. 

I want to acknowledge the contribution that all of you make, that you make to helping Australians find safe and affordable housing – I congratulate you on the national plan that you are launching today.  

Today, actually, is the first of two speeches that I will give on behalf of the federal Labor Party about housing policy before the end of the year. 

This morning, therefore, will not be about me  presenting all of the answers, but rather explaining why I and Labor see getting housing policy right as vital to the nation's future.

We are declaring today that we regard the field of endeavour that you work in, the people that you care about as being a national political priority. 

It was actually back in 2016, February, that I and Chris Bowen outlined Labor’s plan to reform negative gearing so that, from now on, or in the event that we are elected, that is, it will only apply to new housing – and we will halve the capital gains discount for investors.

We argued back then – as we do now – that first home buyers, indeed every Australian looking to buy a home, has the right to compete on a level playing field.

I simply don’t believe it’s fair that young Australians trying to buy their first home and build a future and to bring up their family have to bid against affluent property investors subsidised by the taxes that we all play. 

I know it is not sustainable to spend billions on this subsidy every year.

Now, Labor’s made some big policy calls as an alternative government – but our desire to make the system fairer remains one of our biggest calls.

And despite the predictable, overblown, sometimes downright dishonest attacks from our opponents and the vested interests whom they represent, we believe in our policy, we’ll be standing by it, and we continue to argue for it every day until we deliver it.

We will not be frightened-off or deterred by the tantrums of the multi-millionaire property developer brigade, investors who are reaping millions in taxpayer subsidies.

Our plan is fair, no retrospectivity. If you’re currently negatively gearing, the rules won’t change.

And our plan is fiscally responsible for the taxpayers of Australia.

But having discussed negative gearing, I also want to say to you today that I recognise that reforming negative gearing isn’t the beginning nor the end, and the full extent of  a fair and sustainable effective national housing strategy is much more than just changes to negative gearing.

The challenge is so much bigger, broader and more complex.

So today, through you I want to speak to millions of Australians for whom home ownership isn’t even a dream.

The people for whom having the security of a roof over their head is a night-to-night, week-to-week, month-to-month proposition. 

We estimate that there were at least 116,000 of our fellow Australians who were homeless last night.

47,000 children under the age of 10, who accessed some form of homeless services last year.

There'll be women last night who were fleeing violent partners.

In one in every two cases, family violence or a relationship breakdown is a reason for seeking assistance.

In one in three cases, it is the reason.

Older women who’ve experienced a sudden change in their circumstances and – because of the inequities in the superannuation system and the broken periods of service in the workforce – do not have the retirement savings to fall back upon.

You would be aware in this room, although I'm not sure most Australians are, that the fastest-growing category of people experiencing homelessness in Australia are women over the age of 55.

And you will all appreciate that it’s not just those who are officially classified as homeless, night to night, who are denied the opportunity of secure housing.

There are 189,000 of our fellow Australians on the waiting list for social housing.

There is the challenge of Remote Housing for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. 

There is a deficit of at least 3000 houses. And we have the conceit of a government who thinks that striking numbers out of the budget can simply magic away the problem.

Then there are people with disability for whom the biggest problem isn’t affordability, but accessibility, who are denied the right to decent housing in their community by the short-sighted  failure of design and planning.

And on top of all of these groups, the homeless, the victims of family violence, people with disabilities, people living in Remote Housing, those on the waiting list for social housing – there are simply all those Australians who are just treading water.

Young people who can’t turn to the bank of Mum and Dad for their deposit.

People in insecure work on low pay – they pay the growing petrol prices, they are spending literally cumulative weeks every year away, from their family, sitting in their car, because they can’t afford to live near where they work, because they’ve have to trade proximity for affordability.

Nearly a million of our fellow Australians who rent, who spend over 30 per cent of their income on housing costs, experience the obviously challenge of financial and rental stress.  

When you think about 30 percent of your income, that means every fortnight, before you get to do anything else, one in three dollars you get after tax is gone.

It travels through your account at the speed of light. 

That's before the shopping has been done for the food on the table, before you’ve even thought about trying to pay down some of the interest on your credit card, before you’ve filled in that prescription, put petrol in the car, or before a single energy bill is paid. 

It's one in three dollars gone, before you’ve even caught your breath.

On that kind of budget, you can’t afford to miss a shift, you certainly don't want to ding your car and then if you have to pay, heaven forbid, for a series of blood tests or an x-ray. 

You certainly cannot risk your washing machine giving up the ghost.

Yet, if these Australians, if they can find a moment or two in their day to switch on the radio, to flick through the paper, to even listen to the torture of Question Time, all they will see and hear is the Treasurer and the current Prime Minister raging in defence in white-hot fury of the tax subsidies of wealthy property investors.

What we actually need in this nation is a debate about how we're going to help the Australians who are just hanging on.

People living life on that thin, unforgiving margin.

They may not be part of anybody's ‘base’, they don’t have a regular slot on Sky News or a weekly column in conservative newspapers to shout at the manifest unfairness of Labor challenging tax subsidies for the lucky few.

Most of the Australians I speak of are simply too busy, they're too tired for that.
They don’t have tax loopholes to defend, in fact they don't even see politics as part of the solution. They don’t consider politics to be relevant or useful to the challenges that they’re facing.

They truly don’t believe that their individual vote matters at all, they doubt that anyone’s listening to them – much less gets it.

So for me, that has to be the starting point of change in this country.

I'm here today with Senator Cameron because we want to put community housing, affordable housing on the agenda for the next election.

We will create a debate about community housing and affordable housing because we believe that that is why governments should govern. 

We think that the best way to achieve putting this on the national agenda, what you spend everyday working on, is to do so with a clear and comprehensive set of well researched, evidence-based policies.

It has to begin with a National Housing Strategy, doesn't it?

One that acknowledges the fundamental role of the Commonwealth, that the national government plays in this - of course it has to be in conjunction with the states and the territories, local government and the private sector, and the not-for-profit sector.
We need to ensure that the finance sector, the banks and the industry super funds get some skin in this important debate.

If I’m elected Prime Minister, I want secure and affordable housing for Australians to be front and centre for the next decade and beyond.

Now I’m going to need your help, I'm going to need your expertise, I'm going to need your ideas, your advocacy and your organising capacity.

There is a base who cares about this issue. It's up to us to formulate it and turn it into a movement. 

I think back to the time when I became Parliamentary Secretary for Disabilities, about a decade ago. On the first day I started as that, I knew very little about the area.

Now, I thought I’d seen unfairness when I represented workers. I thought I’d seen hardship, and I had.

But nothing prepared me, when I became the junior Minister in Disabilities, for the eye opening towards the second-class life, the veritable exile in their own country, that hundreds of thousands of Australians with profound and severe disability and their carers experienced every day.

And right from the start, I accepted that I would never know more than the people who had the lived experience, never know more than the hundreds of thousands of Australians who lived with a disability.

I accepted I'd never know more than the experts and the front line people and the people who work in the field. 

So what I realised is rather than that, the most constructive thing I could do for disability is to make it a political issue.

Politics in this country, and change, isn't as hard as we make it out to be. The greatest problems in our country generally fall back to two key causes – a lack of money and a lack of power. 

So I believe we can remedy this by putting it on the national radar. 

To work with the advocacy groups and the not-for-profits, with the community organisations, so many of whom are here today. 

We need to ensure that political parties no longer have the luxury of brushing aside the issue – and that is exactly what we did with disability.

We made it other people’s issues because in fact, when you scratch the surface, it actually affected so many people.

This is now my ambition for homelessness, for community and affordable housing. It's my ambition for everybody who lives in public housing, to the millions of renters, to people working full-time to save for a deposit.

I want these people and these issues to be threshold issues in the national political debate.

This nation’s democracy determines the issues. Either we determine it or the vested interests do. And I believe it is possible at the next election to make what you care about an important national issue. 

I want the homeless, the people in public housing, the renters, those who go to work and work very hard but can never get a deposit together, to be front and centre to the way we judge a party’s agenda for the future of Australia.

So it means changing the way that we look at housing policy.

Because building and funding affordable, community housing isn’t a welfare measure.

It’s an economic lever.

It’s a massive job creator.

It’s a crucial productivity driver.

And we need to re-imagine housing policy as an irreplaceable and central part of our infrastructure policy, of cities policy, of population policy.

Some politicians today talk about slowing down the population whilst the cities catch up. 

Building social housing is exactly what needs to happen to catch up. 

Someone put it like this to me the other day: we build and upgrade roads and public transport, primarily so people can get to and from work more easily.
We value the jobs created in the process, we recognise the productivity gains.

So surely building more affordable housing, enabling people to live closer to where the jobs are, is just as good and just as important as a road.

We have to make that shift in attitude, we have to start thinking about housing as economic infrastructure as well as a social good. 

We need this National Housing Strategy, where the Commonwealth works in partnership with state and local governments.
After all, it’s often the state governments that control the land supply, and can be equity partners in community housing projects.

And we need to give local governments a seat at the table, a voice in the decision-making.

Because I want them co-operating with us – we want integrated city planning, not isolated council planning.

Council planning, it is all too often a hostage to developers who use their deep pockets, their inexhaustible lists of contacts, and the best lawyers money can buy to build low-quality, high-density housing, disconnected from services and transport – purchased and then left unoccupied. So while that adds to the theoretical supply, it doesn't make a scrap of difference to anyone’s life.

In fact, quality needs to be a bigger focus for all three levels of government, including design standards:
greater energy efficiency better thermal quality in materials universal accessibility for people with disability.

Now I mentioned earlier some of the lessons I took from my time in the disability portfolio.

One of them came from the work that we got the Productivity Commission to do. They costed the National Disability Insurance Scheme. Their analysis proved that whilst it was expensive, the cost of properly funding disability was not a bottomless pit, a well where you would lean over the side and throw the coin in and never hear it hit the bottom.

In fact, it proved that you can.

They quantified the economic benefits, the lift in the participation rate, the boost to GDP over the decades.

From speaking with a number of you, I know that this kind of hard data hasn’t been collected for housing.

I acknowledge that a lot of experts have done bits and pieces of important analysis – but we need to do more to consolidate the information. There isn’t a consensus figure, for example, for the scope of the shortfall, or the looming problems ahead.

When I ask experts, what is our shortage in housing in this country? I get the estimates with some degree of variance – sometimes by hundreds of thousands of dwellings.

From 538,000 by 2036 in Judy Yates’ most recent work, to 727,000 in the latest AHURI report.

Now, I understand that you can have reasonable disagreements, but what I think everyone is crying out for is consistent data to make the best policy.

It is why Labor has already committed to reinstating the National Housing Supply Council, to establish a baseline of facts that we can all agree upon.

What’s more, if we’re going to advance the political argument, we need analysis of the economic benefits: the boost in jobs and apprenticeships, participation and productivity that better housing policy will drive.

Now the benefits of housing for all mean, in my opinion: an improvement in health and education outcomes, lower crime rates, healthier communitie, improved social engagement.

So friends,

As I have said, before the end of the year, which is looming, we will have a lot more to say about our plans for housing and homelessness – and we will explain how we will pay for what we will say.

But you do know Labor’s record, a record of investment in social and affordable housing.

There was the National Partnership on Homelessness
A National Rental Affordability Scheme
20,000 new homes, repairs for 80,000 more, and 90,000 jobs created – during the Global Financial Crisis.

Our record and our values, I submit to you, are why we will deal with the funding gap to ensure investment in housing for key workers and the working poor.

At the beginning of this speech, I opened with saying that we’ve made big calls on economic reform, in particular I pointed out changing and making fairer the negative gearing policies – we seek to end unsustainable tax subsidies.

We haven’t done that for the sake of it, we’re not trying to win a particular tax reform prize.  

We’ve made these hard economic decisions and trusted the Australian people by putting our policies forward, so we can dividend of investment in the future of the country, not from the Monday after the election but for the next decade – for the 2030s.

You understand – better than most – that there are no quick fixes or easy outs to the challenge of properly building and having a housing policy. 

We are talking about problems that can only be solved over the passage of years, even decades. 

But I actually think this is exactly the kind of politics which Australians are hungry to rediscover.

The reason I talk to you about housing is not just because it is important, not just because it is a social good or an economic infrastructure which will see dividends spread across the community.

I have chosen to talk about this today – and will again at our second speech – because I think that Australian politics isn't broken even though many Australians think it is.

I actually think what there is, is a hunger for the long-term not the short-term.

What there is, is a hunger for things which are not immediately popular but are simply hard work.

I think that Australians want to believe that their vote counts, I think they want to believe that the decisions and the fixes are not all in, and just to the multi-millionaire real estate spruikers – but that all of us and all of our views matter.

It’s time for a government to say: that even if we are not the ones to finish the job, we are prepared to start it.

It's time for a government to create a consensus across the political divide which says that housing is important, and community and social housing is important.

The dream that Australians can own their own home is important, but the dream and the reality that Australians can have a secure and affordable roof over their head is also incredibly important. 

My goal for the Labor party at the next election is that people will understand that we have a vision which reaches beyond the end of the campaign, that looks further than the polls and the headlines.

It is why we’re putting together every day a platform for the Australia of the 2030s, not just the Monday after an election.

We want to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one we inherited.

A fair go all round is one of Australia's oldest promises – a plan to hand on a better deal, I think, will provide some satisfaction to the great dissatisfaction Australians currently feel when they survey the political landscape in Canberra. 

We will have a plan which explains why I and my team want to serve as the next government of Australia.

And nothing is more fundamental to a government's obligations to the people than the right of every Australian to a roof over their head.

I’m keen to work with you, we are keen to learn from you, we are keen to work in co-operation and collaboration with you. 

I’m confident that with new determination and new co-operation, that we can put community and social housing on the national political agenda for those Australians who mightn't have a voice in the matters of politics, but who need us most.

I am confident that we can be successful in this enterprise.

The foreign policy of the next Labor Government will be different from those of the past, because the world is different.

Power is shifting. The international order in which Australia has operated since the end of the Second World War is being disrupted.

The ‘America First’ policies of the Trump Administration
The ‘China Dream’ aspirations of Xi Jinping
Britain’s decision to leave the EU
Doubts and tensions over the Paris Agreement
Stressed international institutions more broadly and threats to the health of liberal democracies, these are all signs of the shift.
We can’t know where the present uncertainty will lead, but we can be sure of one thing: the world of the past is not going to return.

We can’t trust to old assumptions, we need to think differently about foreign policy, understanding that Australia will be more responsible than ever for setting our own future.

Under a Labor Government I lead, Australian foreign policy will be independent, confident and ambitious.

If I am elected Prime Minister, Australian foreign policy will speak with a clear Australian accent.

Because I believe foreign policy is more than an academic survey of the world around us, more than a catalogue of things that are happening to us.

Our foreign policy should speak to who we are, for the confidence that we have in ourselves, for the values we believe in, for the region and world in which we want to live.

At the beginning of this year, I promised my team would spend 2018 outlining our vision for the nation, a plan to hand on a better deal to the next generation.  

Meeting that fundamental test, delivering a better deal for those who come after us, depends on a more secure, more prosperous region.

Foreign policy and national security policy are therefore directly linked to Labor’s reforming social purpose and they are essential to its success.

John Curtin and Ben Chifley understood this, they understood the connection between the lives of working Australians and the corridors of international diplomacy.

They argued the case, as we will, that international arrangements must serve the interests of rising living standards and a stronger safety net. 

They called it ‘the positive approach’, it influenced the way that Australian leaders worked to shape the United Nations and new international trade, economic and labour organisations formed at the end of the Second World War.

Those principles haven’t changed, improving the everyday lives of Australians will be our purpose too.

My Shadow Ministers have already outlined some of the objectives that will guide Australia’s international policy under Labor.

Today, I want to set down my priorities and some of my intentions for foreign policy in the first months of a new Labor Government.

There are, of course, plenty of issues that could be covered: Africa, the Middle East, Europe, cyber security - but today can’t be a manifesto. I want to keep things direct and focused.

Beginning with the two countries that will shape Australia’s future most directly: the United States and China, our closest ally and our principal trading partner.

Both nations are changing and Australia’s policy needs to respond from forethought rather than reaction.

Australia and the United States share history, culture, a language and a genuine friendship. We are bound by shared democratic values and respect for the rule of law.

Labor’s commitment to the United States alliance is a pillar of our foreign policy.

We know that Australia’s interests are always best served when the United States is engaged in our region - and the ANZUS alliance helps anchor that engagement.This was the understanding behind the Gillard Government establishing a rotation of US marine forces in Darwin.

And the next Labor government will continue to ensure that our alliance is shaped for our times.

Because America’s position in the world, and its approach towards it, are changing.  

Reflecting the attitudes of American voters, President Trump has made it clear that the United States is not prepared to prop up the global order alone.He’s declared that he wants to put American interests first - and he says he wants US allies to contribute more.  

This is a reality we have to understand, recognising that even beyond the current Administration, future US Governments will demand more reciprocity in international transactions.

Australia’s interests will obviously be different from those of the United States in some areas; our national focus is different, our relationships with our close neighbours are different, our economies have different structures. And indeed our differences in perspective and opinion are one of the most valuable qualities we bring to our alliance with the United States.

We tell truth to power, we recognising that we will not always see eye-to-eye on international issues.

The Labor Party opposed the second Iraq war – and in view of the consequences, we were more responsible allies for doing so.

We regret the United States’ decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement.

We can, and will, express any differences within the enduring framework of our close relationship.  

This is how friends and allies engage. That’s what a confident and independent approach to foreign policy means.

Like the United States, China is also changing.

It is becoming more significant globally as well as regionally, helped greatly in its rise by the rules and institutions of the post-war system. It is pressing its claims for greater global influence.

By some measures China is already the largest economy in the world. China’s growth has brought unprecedented prosperity to the Chinese people and benefited the broader region and Australia.

China accounts for one quarter of our total trade, according to the Governor of the Reserve Bank, it will be our largest export market for the foreseeable future.

And ours is not just a trade relationship. Chinese investment in Australia is significant and its role in the overall stability of the global financial system is critical.

The political, strategic and people-to-people dimensions of Australia’s relationship with China are equally important, more than one million Australians now claim some Chinese identity.

In fact, it’s hard to think of an important issue for Australia’s future, from climate change to the future of Antarctica, where China will not be an influential actor.

When Gough Whitlam made the decision to establish diplomatic relations with the then underdeveloped, agrarian China of Chairman Mao these realities would have seemed unthinkable.

But for all this, China’s party-state system remains very different to our liberal democracy and differences between our systems and values will inevitably affect the nature of our interactions.

However, the next Labor government will not deal with China purely through the prism of worst-case assumptions about its long-term ambitions.

Pre-emptively framing China as a strategic threat isn’t a sufficient response to its role and increasing influence in our region. These kinds of false binaries take us nowhere.

We will deal with China on the basis of the actions it takes and in our own national interests.

In other words, our approach will be sophisticated enough to recognise where our interests align and where they diverge.

We will deal with China, respectfully and directly at all times, and frankly when necessary. We will speak out when its actions are contrary to our own interests, as we would expect China to do the same. 

As our Shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, Penny Wong puts it, “consistency and clarity” will shape our response.

China is an important part of our region - but not the only part.

It was Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard who reframed Australia’s region as the ‘Indo-Pacific’.

My vision for the Indo-Pacific is a region where all voices are heard, where rules and institutions guide collective action - and where the rules are set through negotiation, not imposition. A regional framework, of respect and co-operation.

Australian Labor is good at building foreign policy frameworks, we own a proud tradition of elevating and empowering multilateral institutions.

Our belief in the value of collective action, the power of institutions to drive change is a founding principle of the labour movement – and it is a conviction that applies to international affairs as much as domestic.

Think of:

Doc Evatt at the United Nations.
Hawke, Keating and Evans transforming APEC and ASEAN.
Kevin Rudd and Wayne Swan’s work at the G20
And Kevin and Julia’s success in earning a seat for Australia on the UN Security Council.
A new Labor Government will bring new energy and new purpose to this approach, because we live in a time where the authority of rule-making organisations, from the United Nations to the World Trade Organisation, is fraying.

This matters to Australia, because a ‘might is right’ world, a world where power alone is the determinant of rule-setting, marginalises Australia’s interests.

Other countries will find an Australian Labor Government working to establish active partnerships, exploring new ways of managing a divided world and reforming the institutions to which we belong.

We will seek to deepen our defence and economic ties with New Delhi, as India’s interest and influence in our region grows. 

We want to broaden our old friendships with South Korea and Japan.

After all, our contemporary trading relationship with Japan began with the 1957 Commerce Treaty, when memories of war were still so fresh. But the foundation of our political relationship was the Basic Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation, driven by Whitlam and signed by Fraser.

Penny and I visited Japan and South Korea last year, and there is more we can do with these nations to enhance the security of our region. 

And we will put a clear focus on the nations and institutions of Southeast Asia.

As the point where the Indian and Pacific Oceans intersect, and through which so much of Asia’s trade and energy supplies flow, Southeast Asia is central to Australia’s foreign policy. 

The largest Southeast Asian state Indonesia, has been at the heart of Labor’s view of this region ever since Chifley’s decision to support the Indonesian independence fighters against the returning Dutch colonial administration after the Second World War.

Paul Keating once described his vision for our relationship with Indonesia was ‘strategic trust’.

Now there is still a lot of work to be done to reach that point but that will be the ambition will be a central objective of the government I lead. And if I become Prime Minister, I will make an early visit to Jakarta.

I think all Australians are rightly proud of the role our country played in helping Timor-Leste establish itself as a nation - and I acknowledge Prime Minister Howard’s strong leadership as a key part of this.

Yet neither Prime Ministers Abbott nor Turnbull visited the country. I will rectify this neglect by paying an early visit in order to re-energise this friendship.

Building a stronger regional framework also means paying close attention to old friends like Singapore and Malaysia and newer partners like Thailand and Vietnam, as well as supporting the institutions that are centred around ASEAN and the East Asia Summit.

These countries are vital in helping to address issues like trans-national crime, including people-trafficking.  

They are vital to help keep our region safe from terrorism, particularly the growing threat of battle-hardened foreign fighters returning from the Middle East.

And for Australia to offer leadership in South-East Asia – indeed the world - we cannot turn away from the erosion of democratic freedoms in Cambodia, or from expressing human rights concerns in Vietnam or in the Philippines.

We will draw attention to human rights abuses and use our influence to hold those responsible to account.
We are deeply concerned about the treatment of the Rohingya minority in Myanmar – and we will support moves to bring justice upon those who have committed the crimes.

And to ensure the values of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are defended and expanded, we will appoint a Global Human Rights Ambassador.

We have a vision for Australia’s role in our region and we have a suite of policies to support it.

Labor’s FutureAsia plan is a whole-of-nation effort, elevating our approach to the Indo-Pacific beyond transactional questions, broadening our engagement beyond one narrow frame of reference or another.

As Tanya Plibersek, Chris Bowen, Jason Clare, Richard Marles and Penny have all spoken about, a key part of this work begins in Australia.  

Boosting Asian languages and cultural understanding, from schools to board rooms.
Drawing on the knowledge of our great, growing and diverse Asian-Australian community. 
And making better use of the literally tens and tens of thousands of our unofficial diplomatic core, the wide-ranging Aussie diaspora working in Asia. 
In a time of global disruption, much of the structure and content of Australian foreign policy will have to be new.

But the principles that guide us are those which have always shaped my and Labor’s view of the world.

We seek a peaceful world.
We seek a world in which power is tempered by justice.
We seek a fair world, where prosperity is shared.
We seek a sustainable world, where the environment is protected for future generations. 

For me these are not just lofty ideals, I believe Australia has a real and practical interest in co-operating with others to build a better future.

It's what Gareth Evans called ‘good international citizenship’, it's what Penny Wong calls ‘constructive internationalism’. 

And to help achieve these aims, Labor will rebuild the skills and expertise necessary to enable us to deliver an international development assistance program of high quality and measurable effectiveness. 

The Abbott, Turnbull and Morrison Governments have reduced Australia’s aid budget to a historic low. Labor will lift Australia’s contribution.

This isn’t just our humanitarian responsibility, it’s an investment in our regional and national security.
And nowhere are the opportunities and responsibilities of good international citizenship more clear than the island states of the Pacific.

A Labor Government I lead will seek to engage with the Pacific through partnership, not paternalism.

Ours will be a listening leadership, based on respect and a genuine understanding of one another.
We’re talking about a collection of partner nations in an ocean larger than all of the earth’s landmass combined, call it ‘the Blue Continent’.

Our Pacific policy will respect the important geopolitical implications of that terminology.

We will not define our Pacific neighbours by their smallness of the size of their land, by their relatively small populations but by the greatness of the oceans for which they are custodians of and that we share with them.

The Pacific region is known for its diverse languages, culture, legal systems and stages of development.

We need to put more effort into recognising and understanding this remarkable diversity, appreciating the challenges of travel, service delivery and infrastructure in these remote areas.

Otherwise, within a decade, the ten million people living across the Pacific islands will be living in some of the least developed nations on the planet.

It is not for us to lecture these nations about what they should want - or to insult and patronise our neighbours if they ask for assistance - but rather to work alongside them to achieve the progress that they need.

We will listen, knowing that for our Pacific neighbours, sustainable development and poverty reduction are more than economic concerns for them. And we must strive to understand the socio-cultural dimensions which impact these issues.

A Labor Government will put the Pacific front and centre in our regional foreign policy. We are not going to forfeit the Pacific because we didn’t turn up.

Labor will reconstitute the role of Minister for Pacific Affairs and International Development that the new Prime Minister has recently relegated to an Assistant Minister status. 

The Minister will serve within the Foreign Affairs policy and will coordinate our Pacific strategy and programs across government, proof of how seriously that we take the Pacific and the people who call it home. 

We will engage with the Pacific not through the intricacies of geopolitics but in its own right.

Our goal will not be the strategic denial of others but rather the economic benefit of the ten million people of the Pacific islands themselves.

The new Prime Minister’s decision to miss the Pacific Islands Forum meeting in Nauru sent, I think, the worst possible message at exactly the wrong time.

It is part of a pattern of the fly-over neglect of the Pacific and of the Forum by Coalition Prime Ministers.

Obviously, development assistance is critical and Labor will grow our aid commitment to the Pacific. But our agenda for engagement is bigger and broader than this.

We will encourage others, including private firms, the private sector, to invest in projects that drive development in the region: from roads and ports to water supply, communications technology and energy infrastructure.

New Zealand is already doing this, the United States and Japan are exploring the same options.  

Australia should be too.

My vision for Australia is to actively facilitate concessional loans and financing for investment for vital, nation-building projects through a government-backed infrastructure investment bank.

Our neighbours in the Pacific are looking for partners to help them build infrastructure and as Prime Minister, I intend to make sure they look to Australia first.

I see this financing facility as a way that Australia can elevate our status as a ‘partner-of-choice’ for Pacific development and enhance security and prosperity in the region.

We’ll also look for benefits in and opportunities in government services, where both Australia and the region can win-win. Through us utilising our economies of scale and comparative advantages in technology and expertise.

Take the provision of Pacific patrol boats and the advisors which accompany them, enabling Pacific countries to engage in better surveillance of their exclusive economic zones to defend themselves against threats from smuggling, illegal fishing, various forms of exploitation and other types of transnational crime.

All this, in turn, helps build the sovereignty of the Pacific states.

Our TAFEs and vocational training institutions could be called on to do more to help Pacific nations expand their skills.

The Seasonal Workers Program, a Labor initiative which has enormous mutually beneficial potential. And where there is a genuine shortage of seasonal workers in this country, the Pacific should be prioritised.

We believe in giving people of the Pacific the opportunity to find work here - not as a substitute for local workers, not as a way of undercutting overall wages and conditions but with a guarantee too that no-one working in Australia is exploited.

I think that’s particularly relevant in light of reports today that widespread wage theft for overseas workers, means 1 in 3 are earning less than half the minimum wage.

We must also address the particular inequalities affecting women in the Pacific, from education to jobs to family violence, just as the Gillard Government did with the ongoing Pacific Women Shaping Pacific Development initiative.

Equality for women is an economic and social priority for Labor here at home and gender equity and social inclusion will be at the heart of our foreign policy in the region and the wider world.

The Australian Defence Force already enjoys close relationships with the militaries of the region but we can do more.

We will seek to actively work with the PNG Defence Force, the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, and the Tonga Defence Services to identify how the ADF can help these nations bridge specific capability gaps.

We want to mend our relationship with the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, to ensure the ADF is best-placed to develop the Fiji military’s professional capabilities to ensure Fiji’s security needs.

In doing so, though, we will be mindful of the lessons of the past: co-operation must focus on instilling professionalism in military forces, respect for the rules of armed conflict, international humanitarian law and the principle of civilian authority over the military.

No community of nations are more concerned about climate change, with better reason, than our Pacific neighbours.

Rising sea levels are an existential threat to these nations.

Under an Australian Labor Government, our nation will be much better placed to help our neighbours respond and to press their case internationally because we accept the science of climate change and we accept the need for real action.

Papua New Guinea is the largest Pacific state and the one with whom we share the longest history, and it lies just five kilometres from the closest Australian islands in the Torres Strait.

We need to start thinking of Papua New Guinea as a big country, already a population of 8.4 million and by the middle of the century it could reach Australia’s current size.

Now, several Prime Ministers of Papua New Guinea have raised various concerns about Australia’s visa policies, the costs and restrictions on their citizens, which have impacted relationships at the personal level.

Under a government I lead, we will institute a thorough analysis of the details and causes of the discontent. Seeing how we can improve the system without undermining our border security.

Fundamentally, building a deeper form of engagement with Papua New Guinea will require more than Kokoda tourism.

It requires us to recognise Papua New Guinea’s leadership role in the Pacific, according the government and people of Papua New Guinea the respect of equals, as well as friends.

No country is a closer friend to Australia than New Zealand, no nation understands us better. 

Our Closer Economic Relationship is one of the great global success stories of international engagement.

But we should always be asking ourselves how we can work more effectively on our common global and regional objectives. And the improved treatment of the hundreds of thousands of long-term New Zealand permanent residents - and  taxpayers - in Australia would be on my agenda.

In recent years, the issue of people smuggling and asylum seekers has complicated, and sometimes distorted, our relationships with a number of countries of importance to us in the Pacific and Southeast Asia.

The problems of refugees and displaced persons are tragic in their impact and global in scale, but they do have a particular regional dimension. 

I want to be very clear about this: Labor will maintain regional processing.

We will continue to stop boat arrivals and to turn boats back when safe to do so, and we will defeat any efforts by criminal syndicates to resume their lethal trade. 

Operation Sovereign Borders will be fully resourced. Indeed we will revisit areas where the current Government has made cuts, like those to the number of AFP officers working in neighbouring countries with our partners to prevent and disrupt smuggling ventures.

At the same time though, I recognise there are more displaced persons in the world today than at any point since the Second World War and Australia must play its part in helping resolve this humanitarian crisis.

We have already announced that Labor will increase our aid program, our support for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and our humanitarian visa program.

All of this represents the biggest offering to the global plight of refugees that any Australian Government has ever made.

It signals a determination for Labor to see Australia return to the group of nations which are seeking to resolve this global tragedy.

Greater Australian action on the global stage will place us in a much better position to secure third country resettlement arrangements for the people remaining on Manus and Nauru.

The New Zealand Government have put forward an important offer. It’s time the new Prime Minister put aside the point-scoring and worked with us to take it up. Stopping the boats was never meant to leave people languishing in indefinite detention. 

We understand the importance of region-wide solutions to the problem, including the need to develop regional processing facilities that meet our international obligations and into which we have a clear line of sight. 

To help co-ordinate Australian activities in this area we will appoint an Ambassador for Refugees and Displaced People and we will work with the UNHCR on ways to manage and process asylum seeker flows.

Today, I’ve deliberately focused on our vision, some of our immediate actions and policies of our foreign policy, rather than talk too much about the other side. 

But I do have to say, the more we discover about their decision to abandon 70 years of bipartisanship on the Middle East, the worse it looks.

Labor supports a two-state solution.

We recognise Israel’s right to live behind secure borders.

We acknowledge the people of Palestine’s legitimate aspiration for a state of their own.

And we understand that in an area rife with tension, every move is weighted with meaning.

So simply announcing the relocation of the Australian embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is no mere logistical exercise, it’s hugely controversial and consequential.

There is a reason why only Guatemala and the United States have arrived at that decision. 

The idea that such a decision would be taken simply to help with the desperate pursuit of a handful of votes in a by-election - without consulting our foreign service, or defence force, without communicating the decision in a timely and courteous manner to our neighbours and partners, without any structure or process or advice behind the decision at all - this is not just cynical politics, it’s damaging to Australia’s reputation and to our relationships with other nations.

If I’m elected Prime Minister, foreign policy won’t be shaped by internal polling or electoral timetables but always by Australia’s national interests: first, second and third. The immediate will not trump the long-term, the short term will not trump the future. 

I’ve spoken today about disruption caused by changes in the policies and attitudes of other nations.
But our international community is also being confronted by a new and urgent set of challenges as a result of developments in artificial intelligence and machine learning.

These technologies are re-defining the way we work, the way communities engage with each other, and the ability of governments and private businesses to impose social control. And these technologies are being weaponised too.

The new frontier of artificial intelligence, urgently requires new ways of thinking and more effective and up-to-date international agreements. Labor will ensure that Australia is able to contribute actively and creatively and constructively to international actions in this area.

Today, while I haven’t focused this speech on defence policy, I do re-iterate our  firm commitment to strong, self-reliant, defence forces.

One of the great privileges of being a Member of Parliament is the opportunity to witness the professionalism, skill and dedication of our remarkable Australian Defence Forces up close.

Labor is committed to our serving men and women and our veterans and we are committed to maintaining defence spending at 2 percent of GDP.

We will also develop a capable national defence industry because, as Richard Marles has said, this industry – uniquely - has the ability to project Australian power, to have Australia be taken seriously in a way which complements the work of the ADF.

A homegrown defence industry is part of Labor’s DNA.

We will support security policies and agencies that keep Australians safe. We will maintain and develop the wide network of security ties and intelligence arrangements which help us deal with challenges to our society and our world.

Our traditional Five Eyes partnerships, pooling resources, effort and knowledge, are critical to that.

And to help change the international environment, like changing things at home, you’ve got to know what you want to do and expend the effort and resources and work with other people.Not all of them will share your aims but like all fields of leadership, you have to persuade.

And the job of persuading, and influencing and shaping requires resources appropriate to the task.That’s why it is just as important to invest in our diplomacy and the infrastructure of our international engagement, as it is to sustain our defence force and intelligence and security resources.

And if Australia is to think differently about the world, we also have to think differently about ourselves.

I’ve already announced that in our first term, Labor will prioritise a Voice to Parliament for our First Australians and will hold a people’s vote on an Australian Republic, with an Australian head of state.

We are taking these actions not because of what they say to others but because of what we say to ourselves. The nation we want our children to see in the mirror. Confident, ambitious.

But nevertheless, they will send a signal to the wider world about Australia’s confidence in ourselves and the changing nature of our society.

Next month marks the centenary of the Armistice, when the guns of the First World War fell silent.

Over the past four years, our nation has commemorated and honoured tens of thousands of young Australians who risked and lost their lives in that conflict, or who came home changed.

Next year will mark the centenary of the Paris Peace Conference, when the participants and victors of that terrible war came together to try and build a lasting peace.

Australia was at that conference, we were part of those efforts - and those efforts failed.
Over the following twenty years:
growing protectionism increased isolationism the failure of multilateral organisations like the League of Nations and the election of ultra-nationalist governments that undermined liberal democracy
All led to another, even more damaging conflict.

We can hear echoes of that world now, we should heed the warnings.
Australia can’t do it alone.

But by adding our voice to others, by demonstrating Australian leadership, by building new coalitions, standing up for what we believe, contributing to the growth of security and prosperity, we can make a difference.

We can recognise changing global realities as Curtin did in his turn to America, as Chifley did in supporting the Indonesian independence movement, as Gough Whitlam did in visiting China.

We can shape international institutions as Evatt did with the United Nations, Keating with the APEC Leaders’ Meetings and Rudd with the G20.

We can contribute to the development of new rules as Gareth Evans did with the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Responsibility to Protect Doctrine and the Cambodian Peace Process.

It would be wrong to underestimate the challenges ahead, but it would be equally wrong to underestimate Australia’s capacity to respond and change. 

Conviction, confidence and ambition will underpin Australia's approach, Labor's approach. 

The foreign policy of the next Labor Government will speak with a clear Australian accent.

It’s remarkable really, the reforms that have been undertaken, from community housing to Australia’s First treaty legislation: through the parliament, on the books and into law.

And that’s really the pattern in Victoria, under Dan Andrews’ leadership: first in the nation, leading the way.

Leading the way on reducing family violence.

Leading the way on mental health – and I want to congratulate the Victorian Government, leading again on the Royal Commission they’ve announced this week. Well done.

Leading the way on the funding and building of public transport – in our city and in the regions. 

Leading the way on job creation – you are the fastest growing economy in the nation.

And – of course – leading the way in education. 

That’s particularly important to me. Mum was a teacher. She taught in the bush – in Orbost – and in Collingwood and in Balwyn. And then she taught right here at Monash, for many years in the education faculty.

In fact, she also studied law here as a mature age student. It was the same year I started my law course at Clayton.

Now, I enjoyed my first year – meanwhile, Mum won the Supreme Court prize.

But before all that, my twin brother and I actually went to kindergarten here, while Mum was working.

And back at that same kindergarten, 47 years later, last month – I was really proud to stand alongside Dan Andrews and Jenny Mikakos to announce that Labor - State and Federal - are backing universal access to preschool for every three year old and four year old. 

So this means that every child, regardless of their postcode or their parents’ wealth, just gets the best start in life. 

We do this because in the Labor Party we know education doesn’t just open doors, it doesn’t just lift people out of disadvantage - we know education is fundamental to a strong, productive and growing economy and society.

This is why Dan Andrews and James Merlino have truly made Victoria the Education State.

And if our country is going to win in Asia and succeed in the world, if we’re going to create decent jobs and secure new opportunities for our kids - then we need to take the Victorian vision and make Australia the Education Nation. And we will.  

Now, I explained that I went to university here - but I actually grew up just down the road, down Dandenong Road in Murrumbeena, Hughesdale.

I can remember, from a very young age, sitting behind Mum in the Corolla, stuck again at the level crossings on Poath Road, or at Neerim Road. 

Thanks to your Labor Government, those boom gates are gone, Hughesdale is on its way to a brand new station and pretty soon there’s going to be new parks and public spaces right along the Cranbourne line.

Or in the North-West, where I live now, traffic used to build-up at the St Albans level crossing every day.

On too many tragic occasions, it cost people their lives.

But now there’s a state-of-the-art new station in its place, Main road and Furlong road are flowing as they always should have been.

This is the same story that’s repeated at another 27 level crossings around the suburbs.

And hasn’t Dan done a great job – not only removing them as promised, but ahead of schedule.

And this is also the story of Melbourne Metro, an underground rail network worthy of a great world city like ours.

It will be the story of the Tulla Rail Link as well.

And most excitingly, it will be the story of the new Suburban Rail Loop.

Dare I say it, the new Suburban Rail Loop is the Holy Grail of public transport in Melbourne.

I’m a Melbourne boy, raised here. But this 90 kilometres of new track connecting the northern and eastern suburbs, joining-up the airport, universities, TAFE and hospitals –

Did you know the Victorian Colonial Government first started work on a ring railway in Melbourne between 1890 and 1893?

It actually ran between Oakleigh and Camberwell. There’s still land cleared for the then railway. It closed in 1893.

And in the 120 years since, it’s been nothing but a dotted line on a map and a conversation topic.

Every single government since Federation has talked about an outer railway.

Every government talks about easing congestion, every government talks about upgrading public transport.

But only the Andrews Labor Government has got on and started to do it.

And I’m pleased to say that if I’m elected Prime Minister, my government will put in an additional $300 million to help the Andrews Government get started on the Suburban Rail Loop.  

Now, friends, I have to admit that I haven’t been closely following all the ins-and-outs of the Victorian Liberals over the past four years.

I mean, you can only read so many articles about Lobsters and Mobsters before it all gets a bit Godfather III.

But I did see that during the week they’ve unveiled their new slogan:

“Get Back in Control”.

Seriously.

I mean, I wondered if they were trying to send a message to their mates in Canberra.

Maybe they thought if they projected ‘Get Back in Control’ onto the Opera House, Scott Morrison and Peter Dutton and the rest of them might take the hint.

If that’s what they’re hoping for - they’re going to need a much bigger billboard.

But I did notice the other day, when I saw a few of them standing in front of their brand new signage, they actually blocked out the bit that says “In control”.

So instead, it just says “Get Back.”

Like a warning sign.

And it really is a warning sign, to all Victorians.

But the real worry with the Liberals is not Getting Back, it’s Going Back.

Going back to higher unemployment.
Going back to cuts to schools and TAFE and apprenticeships.
Going back to town planning dictated by greed, not need.
Going back to overcrowded trains and gridlocked roads.
Going back to a party that takes the regions for granted and lets infrastructure in the suburbs fall into decay.

In the past four years, under Dan Andrews’ leadership, Victoria has come too far and achieved too much to risk going back.

You know, I was thinking to myself on the way here about election night 2014.

And there was a lot of talk that night – from me included – about how all of you in Victorian Labor made history.

But I thought, as I was driving here, that when you look back on it, it wasn’t winning the election that was the historic part – although that was amazing.

The historic part is actually what Victorian Labor and the Andrews Government have done with the victory.

The historic part is how you have filled the four years that have followed that remarkable night. 

It’s the change you have brought into people’s lives, right around Victoria.

It’s the child in the regions learning in a state-of-the-art classroom
It’s the apprentice who can get a start.
It’s the community revitalised by new jobs.
It’s the suburbs transformed by great infrastructure.
This why you do what you do. It’s why John Cain did it, it’s why Steve Bracks did it, it’s why you’re seeking re-election.

For the difference you can make in the lives of your fellow Victorians.

For the chance to carry-on building a better Victoria.

Between now and election day, Victorians will have a choice.

A choice between a Liberal Party that wants to send this state to the back of the national pack.

A Liberal Party that wants to cut and unwind and undo all the progress and success that Victoria has made. 

Or the choice of a Labor Government and a Labor Premier who will keep this great state leading the nation.

It was actually way back in 1965 that John was given a research task by the forerunner to the Melbourne Institute, to collate, for the first time ever, the national health expenditure figures for Australia. And out of that important but possibly seemingly mundane academic exercise, came the bones of Medicare.

John’s life and legacy reminds us all, that the right combination of expert research, persistent advocacy and political courage can change the direction of this nation for the better.

And really, that’s what I'd like to talk to you about tonight.

Because if Labor wins the next election, I intend to lead a government with the courage to do what is right.

It will be a government with faith in our Australian people, confident that if you explain why you’re taking the big and difficult decisions, and advocate for them, the Australian people will back you.

I intend to lead a government prepared to establish commissions and inquiries in the pursuit of information and facts. But also when we have acquired the facts, when we know what should be done, the government I intend to lead will have the ticker to actually get on and just do it.

I actually think that the political discourse in this country underestimates the people of our nation. 

Wherever I go, in big cities and the suburbs and small towns and the regions, I want to reassure you that the people of our nation are hungry, they're hungry for a government with a vision to explain where we want Australia to be in ten and twenty years’ time, they're hungry to hear the plan on how to do this.

It was back in 2014, the first occasion I addressed this gathering as Labor leader, I perhaps precociously said at the time, my united team would not waste the time in opposition. I promised that I and my team would do the hard yards of policy development.

I think that even if our harshest critics don't agree with everything we're saying, they would say we’ve certainly measured up to the task of offering a view about the future of this country beyond the next poll.

Labor is not trying to be a small target. We are currently assembling an economic and social program for the future of Australia and we will submit this to the people at the next general election, whenever it is in the next thirty weeks.

At the heart of our program for the social and economic benefit of the nation for the next decade and beyond, is a fundamental recognition that too many Australians are at the wrong end of the prosperity equation. The wrong end of the deal.

Too many of our fellow Australians feel that the wealthy and the powerful get the best of the deal; the best health care, the best education - in fact, the best of everything.

And too many Australians feel that influence on politics is reserved for the powerful few with the loudest voices.

Witness the organic backlash over the Opera House, our national icon being treated as a commercial opportunity, marketed as Australia’s 'biggest billboard’. 

It became a lightning rod, a proof-point for many ordinary people, that political decision-making in this country is perceived to have been siphoned-off to vested interests, to special pleading, that the national conversation is dominated by a familiar parade of organisations and spokespeople who can get wall-to-wall media coverage saying that everything is working fine just as it is.

This is not healthy for our country. 

You know, I’ve met older Australians who’ve been left waiting six months for an aged pension to which they are legally entitled. A vital bit of support that they’ve worked for and paid taxes for their whole life. How are these people supposed to feel when they open the pages of The Australian one day and read how a small private foundation could get half a billion dollars in half an hour, which they didn't even ask for.

This sort of thing is corrosive to our democracy. It feeds a dangerous perception that what matters in this nation is not your talent or your efforts – it’s your connections. It’s not what you know, it’s who you know.

I want to change this.

Because, at the end of the day, I think that most Australians would just like to know if there is someone in their corner. Someone who wants to make sure that they are included in our nation's prosperity.

They want a leader who recognises that the woman or man who comes home, worn out from a good but hard day’s work, is doing as much for this country as someone who sits in a tall office block playing the financial markets.

They want to feel that their effort is appreciated.

If I’m Prime Minister, I want these working Australians, millions of whom have gone home tonight some of whom are still serving us here, I want those working Australians who are doing their best, to know that they are as much the backbone of this nation as anybody else. And they are appreciated as much as anybody else.

Now my opponent I saw, even today at this conference, says somehow that when I talk like this, it is about the ‘politics of envy’. But that’s not true.

Quite frankly, I don’t mind how rich anyone is. I do not begrudge people their financial success, I salute it.

But for this country to work, to be the nation that we want to see in the mirror, that we want our children to see in the mirror, for our shared national enterprise to thrive, it cannot just be those who are already very well-off who keep doing very well.

Everyone needs to feel like they are getting a fair go - and the only way to feel like you’re getting a fair go, is if you are actually getting a fair go.

I do not believe Australia is a resentful society. But at the moment, I think that the number of people resentful about what they regard as unfairness in this country is a continuously growing number.

And a lot of the things I’ve seen in this job in the last five years convince me that people do have every right to feel that way.

The story of the past five years for many, if not most Australians is that everything has gone up, except their wages.

The cost of health care is up 24 per cent.
The cost of child care is up 38 per cent.
Property rates and charges are up 19 per cent.
Utilities bills are up 12 per cent.
And challengingly for our democracy, for both of the major parties, is that people see politics as part of the problem – people do not see politics as part of the solution.

If we win the election, I want to do something about this fundamental and growing cynicism about our own democracy.

If Labor is elected as the next government, I want us to be known for our actions, not words.

I am ambitious for this country. But I am so ambitious for this country that I hope that the end of our first term of Government if we are elected, that people will come up to me and say, you know what, you actually did something, you didn't just talk about it, you had actions not just words.

I think this is how we restore some faith and trust in our system and how the great project of reform can continue.

If a government can demonstrate to Australians that their democracy is worth the trouble, that the decisions that are made in Canberra, the debates that are held there can deliver meaningful improvements in people’s daily lives.

I believe that’s how we moderate resentment, not by tearing anyone down but by building people up. By building people up.

And by eliminating some of the brutal unfairness and inequality in this nation. 

Because it is brutally unfair that today, the International Day of the Girl Child, that our daughters when they grow up and go to work they will effectively have to work the first two months of the year for free, compared to their male colleagues, our sons.

It is brutally unfair that our First Australians have a life expectancy a decade shorter than the rest of us.

It is brutally unfair that tonight there will be at least 100,000 of our fellow Australians sleeping rough.

It is brutally unfair that 121,000 Australians, at least – 95,000 of whom are living with complex conditions or dementia – are stuck on a waiting list for aged care support.

It is brutally unfair that some multinational companies can get rich in Australia and from Australia and from Australians, without paying tax in Australia.

And I think it is unfair to prioritise tax concessions and tax subsidies for people who are already very comfortable, over investing in Australians and investing in Australia's future. 

Now, I understand that some of the changes that we've worked on are not popular with everyone, they can't be.

You can talk to me up hill and down dale but you will not convince me that it is fair or sustainable for taxpayers to underwrite the tax office to issue a multi-billion dollar refund cheque every year for shareholders who haven’t paid any income tax for that year in the first place. When we could be using that same money to invest in the infrastructure of the nation, the schools, the TAFE, the universities, the early childhood education, the essential services, our hospitals that every Australian will need.

Now it’s not every day that I quote President Ronald Reagan’s chief economist, Martin Feldstein – but I think he put it very well when he said, and I quote: 

“That in terms of real economic impact, limiting tax expenditures should be viewed as a reduction in government spending”. 

Limiting tax expenditures should be viewed as a reduction in government spending.

So I believe it is incumbent on government to look at tax subsidies, tax loopholes and tax concessions with the same rigour that we examine every other dollar of government spending, with the same respect for taxpayer funds.

And we make our choices based on this, we make our choices based on our priorities and our values.

Simply put: I believe a proper education for our kids is more important than subsidising a tax write-off for property investors buying their fourth and fifth investment property. 

I believe that good hospitals and healthcare are more important than enabling someone on half-a-million dollars to minimise their tax by splitting their income through a family trust, to an adult family member not working in the family business. 

I would rather our nation invest another $10 billion over the decade building the world's best early childhood education system, rather than spend five and a half times that amount, $55 billion, so we can be the only country in the world where the tax office sends cash refunds to shareholders who didn’t pay income tax in the first place.

This is not about increasing tax on middle class and working class people, that’s not what our plan does. 

It’s about closing unsustainable loopholes so that multinationals and the top end of town pay their fair share and then government expenditure goes where it will do the most good, for the future of this nation.  

This is what drives me, it is why I want to be Prime Minister: to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one we inherited from those who came before us.

And it's all of us really, it doesn't matter if we're parents or policymakers, we understand that the best opportunity we can give our kids, that we can give Australian children, is a great education.

Yesterday, Tanya Plibersek and I outlined Labor’s plan for fair funding for every government school in Australia. 

$14 billion to deliver more teachers, more resources, more individual attention in the classroom and more specialised learning, whether it’s helping kids who need the extra help to catch-up, or stretching the bright students to be everything they can.

Parents move houses in this country to get into the zone of a great school. For those who send their children to private schools, they pay the extra cost because they know the difference that school will provide to their children in life.

What I want to do is end the zoning lottery by ensuring that every school in Australia is a great school.

I want every school to teach the basics well, to lift our national performance in maths and science and reading and writing. 

I want every school to enable children to be able to be able to fall in love with what they’re good at, to try art, to try music, to try drama, to try sport, to see the outdoors, to learn about teamwork through camps. 

I want every school to be a place where children have the confidence to be themselves, free from bullying, free from discrimination.  

Now fair funding, I acknowledge, is not the only piece of this puzzle. We can and must do more to lift teacher quality, to lift standards - also to elevate the very status of teaching - to pay teachers and educators like the professionals they are.

But none of this can happen without fair funding.

Fair funding is an essential precondition, it is a prerequisite for better schools. It is not all that will deliver better schools, but the absence of fair funding will guarantee we won't have the best opportunities for every child and in every school.

Nothing of what I am saying is particularly surprising when you come to think about it. Maybe many of you, are among the Mums and Dads who help out at sausage sizzles, the trivia nights, the school fetes, the fundraisers - they know that every dollar does make a difference to education.

Now I support choice in schools, I absolutely do. I fundamentally accept the proposition that parents who pay their taxes to Canberra, have a right to see some of those taxes invested back in their schools regardless of the system - Catholic, independent and of course, public.

I myself am the beneficiary of a Jesuit education, I fought very hard in the last year and a half for the Government to restore the funding they cut from systemic Catholic schools, from low-fee Christian schools.

But there can be no genuine choice for parents if we don't properly fund public education as well.

I think though, on top of proper school funding, the best way we can ensure every child starts school ready to succeed is to deliver quality early childhood education for every Australian child.

Last week, Labor announced arguably the biggest change to education in a generation, as transformative as lifting the compulsory school attendance age.

Within the next 3 years, by 2021 if we are elected, my vision, Labor's vision for preschool and kindergarten is that it should be available to every 3 and 4 year old in Australia. Fifteen hours a week, 600 hours a year - universally accessible.

The experts can explain to us that 90 per cent of a child’s brain develops before the age of 5. That is why starting preschool at 3 years old is world’s best practice.

I am not proposing anything radical by world's best practice.

Universal access to preschool for 3 year olds has been the case in the UK since 2004 and in New Zealand since 2007.
It’s the law in Norway and Ireland, it’s been the norm in France since 1980.
South Korea, one of the best-performing countries on any education ratings ladder has 75 per cent of their three year olds attending preschool.
There’s already more three year olds in China enrolled in preschool than people who live in Australia.
What you learn at preschool has a multiplier effect on your education – and if you miss out, that multiplies too.

At the moment at least 22 per cent of Australian kids starting school aren’t ready. And that same group is twice as likely not to meet the minimum NAPLAN standards in Years 3, Year 5 and Year 7.

Either way - what happens to you at 3 and 4 is still predicting your learning at 12 and 13.

It’s a bit like what Einstein described as the miracle of compound interest: “If you understand it, you earn it. If you don’t understand it, you pay it.”

Early childhood education is compound learning.

Countries who understand it, who offer their kids and their families best practice, they are providing universal access, they give their children the learning, the foundation, reaping the benefits of stronger results.

The countries who don’t understand it, who don’t prioritise investing in it, they're paying the price down the track.

This is the truth behind every one of Labor’s education policies - you cannot go wrong by investing in people:
early childhood education schools uncapping university places rebuilding TAFE and restoring apprenticeships.
Education isn’t just a social good, it’s not only an equity measure. It’s an investment in our future economic success as a nation.

Investing in education doesn’t just open doors, it doesn’t just breakdown the cycle of disadvantage or reduce inequality.

Proper prioritised funding for education and training gives:
stronger economic growth greater productivity a more skilled workforce, with more secure jobs and a more internationally-competitive nation.
There are so many variables Australia can’t control in the world around us. There are so many things thrust upon us by the rapid and exciting transformation in our region; new technology, tectonic shifts in the world of work.

But what we invest in education is something that we can control. It is within our means to make this decision.

Education empowers our people to cope with economic change, it arms Australians with the skills and knowledge to compete and succeed, to win decent jobs and for people to secure their futures.

For me, for Labor, education policy is – and always will be- economic policy.

I said before that the principle which drove me is handing-on a better deal for the next generation.

If we want to hand on a better deal for our next generation, surely this includes taking real action on climate change.

Ten years of the Australian people’s time has been wasted fighting about an issue that a huge and diverse cross-section of our community – from farmers to tourism operators - want the parliament to act on.

Doing the right thing doesn’t require us to wreck the economy, or tear the coal mining industry down.

But I also want to tell you something - I do not intend to sit in my rocking chair or wherever I am in 40 years feeling guilty because I knew what was required and I did nothing when I had the chance to do something.

It’s time, long past the hour, that the Australian Government takes the world’s most qualified scientists seriously. Burying our heads in the sand is not going to get us anywhere.

I spoke earlier about Australians knowing that someone was in their corner.

For me, that means empowering people to have control over their own lives.

It’s a principle I worked on when I helped work on the development of the National Disability Insurance Scheme.

And it’s why I have an open mind about fast-tracking tax cuts for small and medium enterprises whose turnover goes up to $50 million.

We need to see the detail, we need to know where the money is coming from. But we recognise there’s some economic value in that proposition and also that the nation is over the two major parties simply saying no to each other because it was someone else's proposition.

But what I also say tonight is that no-one should imagine that a tax cut for small business is any kind of substitute for a fair-dinkum wages policy.

There is no way to tell any company receiving a tax cut, they must pass that on in increased wages and fair wages and decent jobs are fundamental to Labor’s vision for the future of Australia.

If I’m elected Prime Minister, I want Australians to have a sense of stability and security at work, not living their lives endlessly checking the phone each night as many Australians will do as we sit here, to check if they have a text message letting them know if they’ve got a shift of work the next day.

I want to make sure people aren’t stuck in the purgatory of permanent casualisation, with all the hours and commitment to a full-time job but none of the conditions.

I want people in this country to be able to plan for the long-term, to be able to take out a home loan, a car loan, to start a family, a relationship, to have confidence that their future can’t be just snatched or altered in a moment.

I acknowledge that I want Australians to have the ability to be represented by a union if they choose – and for that union to have the ability to negotiate and bargain for greater productivity and better pay, on an equal footing.

I want Australians who choose to work on Sundays or public holidays to be fairly compensated for their sacrifice.

I want Australians who work on the same site, doing the same job at the same classification, to receive the same pay and conditions as their colleagues – not be cheated out of the same pay by the complex manipulation of labour hire arrangements.

And everything we do in industrial relations, I want our focus to be on equality for the women of Australia: equal treatment at work and equal pay.

A huge factor in the current gender pay gap is the way Australia deals with so-called feminised industries, sectors of the economy that employ a substantial majority of women workers, for example:

Early childhood educators
Aged care workers
Paid carers in the National Disability Insurance Scheme
Politicians on all sides throw a lot of compliments at these Australians and the important work they do, as we should. But thanks and praise, as these workers will tell you, doesn't pay the bills or put food on the table.

If we’re are fair dinkum about closing the gender pay gap, if we’re to fill  the shortages in these sectors as demand for all three of these jobs explodes in coming years, then we need a fair-dinkum national debate about equal pay for work of equal value.

Again - just as with education - equality for women, the equal treatment of women isn’t just a matter of fairness, it’s not just a question of principle - it’s smart economics.

It's an investment in economic growth and prosperity.

If we do nothing else in the future of this country but ensure that women were treated equally to men, this country would be the most prosperous on the planet.

This investment in economic growth, through the mechanism of the fair go for all, it's true for everything we seek to achieve:

Better infrastructure
Quality healthcare
World class education
Clean energy
Fair wages and decent jobs
These aren’t luxuries it would be ‘nice’ for Australia to have, these aren’t things you think about once you hit a certain record for corporate profits. 

These are nothing less than the foundation stones of a strong economy, for our future prosperity.

This country works best when we work together. This country works best when every Australian has the opportunity to contribute to the national story.

At the next election we will submit our program to the judgement of the Australian people, as an antidote to years of selfishness and short-term thinking.

We present our policies as a substantial, long-term vision for a stronger Australia, a fairer Australia.

A plan to invest in people which is good economics.

A plan that says the fair go for all is an efficient distributor of opportunity in this country.

It's a plan to deliver a better deal to the next generation.

It's a plan to deliver a fair go, for all Australians - our oldest national promise.

Now the cynics about politics say you don’t make friends in politics, Tanya, they just haven’t met you. You are outstanding.

I acknowledge the traditional owners of this land, I pay my respects to elders past, present and emerging.  

I'd like to thank President Melham and the Revesby Workers Club for hosting today's rally.

And I'd like to say to all of you who have gathered here because of your interest in Australian politics and the direction of this nation, that I’m here today with my united, stable and steady Labor team, and today we will outline the kind of government that we want to be, and the kind of country that we want to build for future generations. 

Friends, I want to lead a Labor government with the courage to do what is right. 

A government which has faith in the Australian people. The faith that if you explain why you make hard decisions, why you drive the big reforms, why you think long-term, not short-term, then the people will back you. 

I want to lead a government with the respect to be upfront with the Australian people, to present our policies and ideas for their judgement - and to the let the politics take care of itself. 

If elected, friends, I promise to be a Prime Minister ambitious for Australia’s future and Australia’s future generations.

I believe every Australian deserves the chance to fulfil their potential and I know that as a society and an economy we are always stronger when everyone experiences the fair go. 

Of course, we all understand winning government is very hard work. Our mighty movement has only done it three times from opposition at the national level since the Second World War. 

Now in recent times, I’ve have had a fair few number of people come up to me and say something like:

“Oh you must be feeling confident now, because the other mob have been so hopeless.”

As if somehow that takes the pressure off us. Let me declare today, it’s the exact opposite for me. 

I and my united, steady and stable team take absolutely nothing and no-one for granted.

I actually think that the shambles and selfishness, the narcissistic self-obsession we’ve seen from the Liberals and the Nationals creates a bigger challenge for us on the Labor side.

Let me explain, because I think the challenge we face - all of us in the labour movement - is to restore the faith of Australians in Australian democracy itself.

The challenge we face is to demonstrate that politics can still deliver meaningful improvement in people’s lives, that individuals can influence the direction of communities and of nations. That politicians can put the national interest ahead of their own.

And that politics is not about words, it’s about actions.

This is why our Caucus, the Parliamentary Labor Party has spent years doing the hard yards of policy development, it’s why my team are putting our plans out there for all Australians to see well in advance of the next election.

Because for too long, too many of our family and friends, neighbours and work colleagues have been let down by the politics of the small target, the politics of the short term.

Whether it’s the generational challenge of climate change, the future of education, or indeed, defending the fair go at work: three Liberal Prime Ministers have run, or are running, from the challenges facing this country instead of rising to meet the challenges.

The truth is, all of us in public life are passing through but once. The time of the Australian people is too precious to be wasted by delay, inertia or worse.

The obligation we all feel in this room and the labour movement feel throughout Australia is that what matters when you pass through the place but once is to leave it better than when you found it.

When people ask me why I want to be Prime Minister, why Labor wants to form the next government, this is why: we want to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received. 

It's in the Australian DNA and it's in Labor’s DNA. 

All of us want to make sure as parents that our kids have greater opportunities than that which we inherited. And this mission is at the heart of the Fair Go Action Plan which Tanya and I are pleased to launch today.

If we are elected as the next government of Australia, we will:

One, fix our schools and our hospitals. 

Two, ease pressure on family budgets and get fair dinkum about dealing with the cost of living. 

Three, we will stand up for working people in this country: the people who want to work, the people who are working and the people that have worked in this country. We will put working people first. 

Four, we will end the climate change wars, we will invest in cleaner and cheaper energy for future generations. 

And five, we will build a strong economy that works in the interest of all Australians, not just the lucky few.

So, a Labor Government will fix the hospitals and we will do this:

-          by reversing the Liberal cuts
-          by unfreezing Medicare 
-          by making record investments in mental health 
-         and by investing in more beds, more staff and more technology, including new MRI machines in the regions and the suburbs and investing in new urgent care clinics to relieve pressure on our overworked and strained emergency departments

It is wrong that too many Australians battling cancer are driving for hours, or paying thousands of dollars, for vital scans and tests.

It is wrong that too many older Australians with crook hips, bad knees, cataracts or hernias have to wait a lifetime for an operation they have been paying taxes for all their lifetime.

Too many of our young people, our precious young Australians - and indeed adults - can’t reach out for the mental health resources they need. 

There are too many of our fellow Australians living with dementia, supported by their families, who are stuck on a waiting list that gets longer every day the Liberals cut money from aged care, every day the Liberals remain in power.

And too many of our fantastic healthcare workers are over-worked and under-paid. 

Australia is better than this.

Australians deserves better than this neglect, the treatment of health care as a political problem to be band-aided over.

If I’m elected Prime Minister, if our team are elected to govern, I promise Australians that it will always be your Medicare card, not your credit card, that guarantees you access to quality health in this country, full stop.

My mother was a teacher, she taught in the cities, she taught in the bush, she taught overseas, she taught at government schools, then she taught teachers at university but she taught me the best lesson of all: the value of education. Education makes the difference.

We in Labor, we want the next generation of Australian children to be among the best educated in the world. 

Second best is not what our kids deserve, only the best - and that's what Labor will deliver.

It is why Labor in education, led by the remarkable Tanya Plibersek, will make sure that if we are elected, we will deliver fair funding for every public school based on need, throughout Australia.

And we are going to put public TAFE back at the centre of vocational education. That will involve Labor renovating public TAFE campuses around the country, and we are going to waive the upfront fees for 100,000 TAFE places in our first term in government. 

We will keep the doors of university open to all who want to study. We will uncap university places, 200,000 Australian kids and adults from the suburbs and the bush can become the first in their family to get a degree. That's why we believe in education.

And starting in 2021, we will make preschool and kindergarten available to every three year old in Australia, 15 hours a week, 600 hours a year.

That change alone will be one of the biggest changes to education in a generation, it’s as profound as raising the school-leaving age.

It’s a guarantee that every Australian child, regardless of their family's circumstances, their parents’ wealth, or their postcode, gets the best possible start in life.

And what we are also going to do is we are going to ease the pressure on your family budget.

We are going to cap rises in the private health insurance premiums at no greater than 2 per cent for our first two years, to stop the big insurers ripping people off and saving the system. 

We will take no nonsense from the big, privatised energy providers, and we will invest in renewables to bring the price of power down. 

In Chris Bowen’s first federal budget, we will deliver a bigger and better tax cut for 10 million working class and middle class people. That's real money that helps real families get ahead, rather than tread water or go backwards which is what happens to working people when Coalition governments are in power. 

Of course, the best way to lift living standards and ease the pressure on family budgets is to get wages in Australia growing again. 

Right now across this country, working and middle class Australians are not getting a fair deal from the Liberals, or a fair go from the economy.  

Small businesses are getting done over every day by big business. 

And everywhere I go, people tell me everything is going up, except people’s wages. 

Family budgets are feeling the strain. Family savings are being reduced. Family credit and debt is increasing under the Liberals. 

Here's some telling numbers, since the Liberals have been in:

-          The cost of health care is up 24 per cent. 
-          The cost of child care is up 38 per cent. 
-          Property rates and charges are up 19 per cent. 
-          Much more recently than that, even the utilities bills are up 12 per cent. 

But in the last year, wages have barely moved two per cent. 

Mind you, there is some good news: corporate profits are up to record highs, CEO salaries are now 60 times, of the ASX-200 companies, in excess of the average wage.

So there's never been a better time in Liberal Australia if you’re a multinational, a millionaire or a big bank. You’ve had a good run.

But millions of our fellow Australians who helped build our national prosperity, who build the nation, have been excluded from a fair share of our national wealth. The share of national wealth going to wages and salaries is shrinking and the share going to the top end of town is increasing. 

I am proud of the fact I’ve spent my life negotiating improvements in pay and conditions and good jobs and I am proud to lead a party that will go to the next election with the most comprehensive wages policy in a generation. 

In our first 100 days of government, we will restore the Sunday and public holiday penalty rates of 700,000 working Australians.

We’re going to put the bargain back into bargaining, so employees and employers can sit down and negotiate without the unfair threat of termination of the existing agreement hanging over every conversation. 

We’re going to crack down on firms exploiting labour hire: because if you work in the same place, wear the same uniform, perform the same tasks with the same skill – then regardless of the legal identity of the employer, if you do the same job, you get the same pay. Under Labor, this will be the law.

We’re going to stop sham contracting, we're going to introduce a new, stronger test for the definition of casual employment. If you’re working full-time hours, you shouldn’t be classed as a ‘casual’ just because your boss doesn’t want to give you sick leave. 

Friends, there is no such thing as permanent-casual, you're either permanent or you're casual. And we're going to stop some employers from exploiting casual workers and avoiding the obligations which Australians should be able to take for granted when they give years of service. 

Our party, indeed our movement, has dedicated its every waking moment to making sure that the next generation of workers get a better deal, a better set of conditions. 

It’s a cause I’ve been proud to serve, my whole working life. 

And, if I’m elected Prime Minister, I will never forget where I come from. I’ll never forget the most important lesson that my father taught me, who worked on the Melbourne waterfront: you treat no one as your superior and you treat no-one as your inferior. We are all born equal and you treat people properly. 

And that is the standard you should set and you shouldn't doff your cap to the people in the big end of town because quite frankly, they are no different to the rest of us. 

I and my team refuse to accept the notion that inequality is the natural state of affairs, that it is the cost of doing business.

We refuse to accept the notion that the promise of Australia is only for some.

We will not cross to the other side of the road as a government, as all around us struggle and sacrifice for the better conditions of people, for building their birthright, we regard fighting for the fair go as core business of a Labor government in Canberra.

And our fair go is being eroded. Eroded by the rise of the ‘gig economy’, where people are working two and three jobs at all hours of the day and night because none of the jobs pay a decent wage.

The fair go is being eroded by big companies stretching terms of trade of repayments to small business from 14 days to 30 days to 60 days to 90 days, putting terrible pressure on small business. 

The notion of the fair go is eroded by off-shoring, by permanent casualisation.

It is eroded by the acceptance of shoulder-shrugging defeatism, that there is an inevitability of an American-style workplace relations, the dog-eat-dog world where no worker has a property in their job, that no one can regard any employment relationship as permanent.

Indeed, we will not let the fair go be eroded by the notion that the contribution of people as labour is simply a commodity and a cost. Work has dignity and we will stand up for that proposition when we are the government, if we are the government. 

And let us make no mistake, the Government will say this is an election about workplace relations well, this election is a fight for the rights of Australian workers, the right to be represented by a union if they choose.

It is a fight for decent jobs and fair wages and we are in it to win it. 

Every time we talk about the fair go, every time we talk about fair pay, this must include, this has to include, equal opportunity and fair pay for the women of Australia.

This is at the heart of the fair go: equal opportunities for our daughters as well as our sons. 

At the moment, right now because of the gender pay gap, Australian women effectively work the first two months of every year for free compared to their male colleagues. It’s been this way for decades.

Chloe and my youngest daughter is eight years old - she shouldn’t have to wait until her grandchildren are starting work for the gender pay gap to close.

And good intentions alone aren’t going to get the job done.

Our nation desperately needs a new approach toward the equal treatment of women and it should be driven by the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. 

For example, I want this country to deliver a better deal for aged care workers, looking after the people we love.

I want a better deal for early childhood educators, the first people outside the family unit to whom we trust our precious children. 

And I want a better a better deal for the pioneers driving the NDIS, a noble initiative which depends on the heart and the skill of our paid carers.

All of these occupations fundamental to our sense of Australian identity are predominately industries which employ women.

It is not unreasonable in 2018 and at the next election to make it an issue that Australia women should be paid more fairly, we want women to retire with stronger savings in superannuation.

Women who have taken time out of the workforce to start and raise a family should not be reduced to inferior retirement incomes.

It is why if we’re in government we’re going to change the law, so that if you take parental leave, your superannuation contributions don’t stop. It's a down payment on equality for women. 

I said earlier that I and my team are ambitious for Australia and passing on a better deal to the next generation through the fair go for all.

Well, let me nail my colours to the mast here.

On the question of gender pay equity, on the question of equal treatment of women in Australian work forces, I promise that under a Labor government I lead, I believe that Australian women will be able to say: “At last! Actions, not just words.”

My colleagues and I want that to be a hallmark of the next Labor government - an informal slogan: At last! Actions, not just words.

A major reason Labor leads on the equal treatment of women is because we’ve got so many outstanding women in our ranks - Tanya Plibersek, Penny Wong in the Senate and so many more.

And I am proud to say if we win the next election, we will be the first Australian government in the history of our nation to have 50 per cent female representation in the Parliament. 

By contrast, the Liberals don’t pre-select women, they don’t promote women and on too many occasions, they don’t respect women. 

They can’t seem to shake that conservative sexism out of their system. 

I was shocked when the new fellow became the current Prime Minister and he was informed that there were women in his party who felt they had been bullied, cajoled, pressured and intimidated by their own colleagues and his first instinct was to try and cover things up and his second response was equally poor, to say: “Just leave it to me”. 

It’s no wonder that his female colleagues are voting with their feet, it’s no wonder they want out of his cabinet, out of the party room and out of the parliament. 

Nothing less than a dramatic national political shock will cure the Liberals’ attitude to women. 

There’s one guaranteed cure that Australians can deliver to the Liberals to wake-up to their need for a wholesale cultural change - and that’s to give them a good spell on the opposition benches. 

It’s been just about ten years since Tony Abbott and the climate change sceptics took over the Liberal Party. 
That decade of destructive, negative, reactionary politics has robbed Australia of ten years we could ill afford to lose, it’s robbed Australia of consensus on climate change and energy.
Power bills have gone up and up and up.
And pollution has hit record levels. 

You know that we’ve tried to work with the Liberals and Nationals on a bipartisan approach to energy policy. We tried their Emissions Intensity Scheme, we tried their Clean Energy Target, we tried their National Energy Guarantee but every time we arrive at the point they said they were at, but they are so divided on the question they cannot even agree among themselves. 

Australia’s farmers, our tourism industry, our natural environment cannot afford any more years of Liberal climate vandalism and neglect. 

Families and businesses cannot afford any more years of outsourcing energy policy to the big power companies. 

If I’m Prime Minister, we will set a goal for Australia of 50 per cent renewables in our energy mix by 2030, full stop. 

It’s a simple equation isn’t it? Renewable energy equals lower prices, cleaner power and more Australian jobs. 

And renewable energy means a better environment that we pass on to our kids. 

And if you don’t care about doing the right thing by the environment, then you actually have no right to be the government of Australia. 

Our plan for a strong economy is built on a fundamental truth: Australia thrives when middle and working class Australians get a fair go. 

Because when we invest in our people, when we extend opportunity, it is a rising tide that lifts the whole economy. 

It’s true for education and skills and health care, it’s true for investing in the National Disability Insurance Scheme and a better, 21st Century NBN. 

It will be true when we take the Uluru Statement from the Heart, into our hearts and commit to fair-dinkum reconciliation. 

And it’s true for infrastructure, whether it’s big new public transport projects like Western Metro or connecting the new airport to the train line from day on. 

It’s true when we invest in the new car spaces near train stations so people in Schofields, Gosford, Wyong and Riverwood don’t have to park so far from the station in the morning that they need to get an Uber from their car to the train. 

This is not just about convenience and safety. Good infrastructure creates jobs, it creates apprenticeships, it’s an investment in productivity as well as liveability. 

Friends, from upgrading rural and regional roads in western Queensland to rebuilding and renourishing our public transport systems in our crowded capital cities, our Fair Go Action Plan is fully-funded.

We’ve made some big decisions in our time in opposition, so we can deliver the big reforms in government. 

We’ve decided to make negative gearing fairer. 

We’ve decided to make multinationals pay their fair share here. 

We’ve decided to close the loopholes around income splitting in family trusts

And we’ve decided to wind-back unsustainable excesses in dividend imputation.

Now not all these changes are popular with everyone, but as I said at the beginning, the job is about putting your decisions out there and explaining them. 

If I’m Prime Minister, I would rather invest in a world-class education and training system, than protect a tax write-off for a property investor’s seventh house. 

I would rather help reduce the waiting list of 121,000 older Australians for aged care support - than preserve a loophole which lets a multi-millionaire deduct the cost of their tax adviser, so they can avoid paying tax altogether. 

I want Australia to be famous for having the best health care system in the world, not for being the only country in the world that gives cash tax refunds to shareholders who didn’t pay income tax in the first place.  

Friends, today I’ve outlined Labor’s Fair Go Action Plan for the future of our country: 
•    Fix our schools and hospitals. 
•    Ease pressure on family budgets. 
•    Stand up for workers. 
•    Invest in cleaner and cheaper energy. 
•    Build a strong economy that works in the interests of all

It’s a plan to help people now but it’s also a plan to build for the Australia of the future. 

It’s a plan founded on our Labor values: fairness, equality, opportunity for all. 

It’s a plan we can pay for, fiscally-responsible and fully-funded. 

It’s a plan for action, not just words. 

And it is a plan for the long term, a vision to make sure we hand on a better deal to the next generation. 

And can I say to the Liberals and the Nationals, to whoever is in charge this week, please don’t just sit back and criticise. Don’t just sneer or rant or rave or run those tired old scare campaigns. 

Bring on your alternative.

Show some respect for the Australian people. Have faith in their intellect and their love of family and nation and their desire to hand on a better deal to the next generation

I say to the government, let’s make the next election a contest of policies, a battle of ideas. 

Let’s make the next election about the future of Australia. 

Let’s make the next election a contest about a fair go for every Australian and their family, regardless of their gender, their postcode, or their wealth.

Regardless of who they love, or how they worship.

Regardless of whether they live in the bush or the city. 

Regardless of whether their families have been here for 200 generations or six or one.

Friends, I launch this action plan today with confidence in our people and ambition for Australia’s future.

We have the policies, we have the people, we have the plan to deliver.

So today, let us pledge ourselves again to Australia’s oldest promise. 

A fair go for all – and a fair go for all Australians. 

I'd like to acknowledge our Shadow Minister for Early Childhood Education, Amanda Rishworth and another great member of our Shadow Ministry, Clare O'Neil, who now has Monash Uni as a big part of her electorate, and also our outstanding candidate for Chisholm, Jennifer Yang. 

I want to thank Monash for hosting us today, it brings back a lot of memories.

My mum taught here for 33 years, in the education faculty. She was a teacher of teachers.

In fact my twin brother and I attended here in the early 70s, a very radical period for Monash, but we were at kindergarten while mum was working.  

As John generously said, it is thanks to my mother, thanks to her passion for education, her relentless determination to make sure I worked hard as I could, that I was lucky enough to complete two university degrees here at Monash as well. 

So I think it is a good thing that I’m here today, at a place so central to my life, my family, my education, to talk about policy, to talk about vision and, dare I say it, to talk about courage.

Because now, more than ever, Australia needs a government with the courage to do what is right.

A government with enough faith in the Australian people to make the big and long term decisions, even if these decisions are difficult.

Australia needs a government confident enough that it can spell out the need for decisions and priorities and actually let the politics take care of itself.

This is the sort of government I hope to lead, from some point in the new year.

A government full of ideas, a government which actually has a sense of where this country is going in the future.

Where we will be in ten years' time, a government with a vision for what our country can look like in 2030, 2040. A government with a plan for the next decade, the next couple of decades - not just the next couple of opinion polls.

A vision for Australia excelling in the world, excelling by getting education right. Education and learning from the early years, right through to our schools, our TAFEs and our universities. An Australia which keeps pace and stays ahead in our region, our rapidly changing region. A nation that can create good and secure and well-paid jobs with a highly educated and empowered workforce.

I think frankly, anything less than that aspiration to be the best we can in the education of our people, is an aspiration which sells Australia short, which writes Australia small.

If I am elected as Prime Minister, I will never settle for second best when it comes to education and learning in this country. I'll never settle for second best for our people because why should the people of Australia ever have to settle for second best for themselves and for future generations.

I don't know about all of you, but one of the worst afflictions I see with our modern political discourse is that politicians have become perhaps too inclined to under-shoot, to underestimate the capacities of Australian people, to choose the small target, to choose the low road, the tyranny of low expectations.

Wherever I travel in Australia, I actually think Australians are hungry for the political discourse in this nation to be better. I think Australians want our politicians to aim as high for the country as Australians do in their own lives.  

I am ambitious for what Australia can be in a generation's time – and that ambition begins with education.

We are a smart nation, we are, by relative standards, a very rich nation. But we will not remain smart, we will not remain prosperous if we fail to invest in the early years of education.

This starts with acknowledging a simple, vital truth: early childhood education is so much more than child-minding and early childhood educators are not babysitters. 

Child care is not just a participation incentive to help women to return to the workforce, it is how we guarantee our kids the best start in life.

Child care needs to be re-imagined as early childhood education: nothing less than the foundation stone of our education system.

Many of us here are parents, or grandparents, or aunts and uncles, we understand that some of the most marvellous times with our children are those very early years.

You watch, almost physically in front of you, our young children changing and growing and gaining understanding every day they are with us in the world.

As every educational expert tells us, those early days, be it the first 1000 days of life, the early years are fundamental to how a child performs at school and later in life.

Ninety per cent of a child’s brain develops by the age of five.

The experts know it - and the smartest countries in the world have already moved on this fact. 

The UK has had near universal preschool education for three year olds since 2004, in New Zealand since 2007.
It’s the law from Norway to Ireland, it’s been the norm in France for thirty years.
In South Korea, 75 per cent of three year olds attend preschool programs.
China is aiming for universal access by 2020 - the number of Chinese three year olds in preschool is greater than the entire population of Australia.
But in Australia, only 15 per cent of Australian three year olds are attending preschool, indeed only 57 per cent of three year olds currently attend some form of early education, including long day care services.

So we are already miles behind the nations that I've mentioned and we are well below the OECD average of 78 per cent.

Currently, the landscape is that the programs for three year olds in Australia vary from place to place and many children just don’t attend regularly.

It should come as no surprise, therefore, that  Australia is slipping down the global education rankings. It’s no wonder that we trail our neighbours in maths and science and reading and writing.

That is not because of a lack of innate ability, it’s not the fault of the kids, it's not the fault of their parents, their hard working teachers and educators. It’s because we do not have universal access to preschool programs, it is because Australian children are starting school less prepared than children their same age in other countries.

Today, nearly one in four Australian children, 22 per cent, start without the foundational skills to be successful learners.

They’re behind.  And it's not just in pre-literacy and pre-numeracy but also in those social and emotional skills that children develop in their early years when supported by qualified early educators. And this deficit then flows right through their primary education. 

The 22 per cent of children who start school behind are twice as likely not to meet the minimum NAPLAN standards in years 3, 5 and 7. What a child experiences at three and four will be a predictor of their learning at 12 and 13.

So when we look around the world as we've just done, when you look at a snapshot of some results here at home. It is clear that we are overdue for a fundamental change in our approach, this is exactly what my Labor Government will deliver.

So today I am proud to announce that if I am elected as Prime Minister, if Labor is successful at the next election, we will introduce a National Preschool and Kindy Program which will guarantee permanent funding for preschool programs for all four year olds.

And in one of the biggest changes to Australia’s education system in a generation, Labor will expand our National Preschool Program so that it is available to every three year old in Australia.

So starting in 2021, every Australian child will be able to access two years of world-class early learning before their first day in school.

So if you've just had a baby, or you're expecting one soon, you're fortunate that your daughter or son will be part of a new generation of Australian education.  

Labor’s new, age-appropriate program, delivered by qualified educators, will ensure that our children get the best chance possible to grow into confident, capable and curious young learners who are ready to thrive when they start school.

Parents will be able to choose an early learning setting that suits their needs, with play-based programs offered in existing long day care, preschool and kindergarten settings right across the nation.

By the end of our first term in government, my vision is that we will have 700,000 Australian children enrolled in our new preschool programs, right across the country.

And we will make law to ensure every three and four year old has access to 15 hours of age-appropriate preschool a week, 600 hours in a year, so they can make the best possible transition to school. 

This is our vision: two years of quality, universal preschool, with qualified early educators, for every Australian child and every Australian family, regardless of the wealth of the parents.

And we will invest and prioritise $9.8 billion across the decade to turn this vision into reality.

So what this means, is that by 2036, the generation of Australian children finishing Year 12 will have had access to 15 years of continuous education and learning.

I want our children to be amongst the best-educated in the world. 

We can fully-fund this commitment, into the future, because my united and stable Labor team have had the courage to make the hard choices:

We will make negative gearing fairer
We will eliminate income-splitting amongst family trusts for adults who are in those families, who are not working in the  business.
We will wind back unsustainable government hand-outs on dividend imputation.
Now these changes are not popular with everyone, but as I said earlier, I believe we can persuade people that these are the necessary things to do for the future. 

Forming a government in this nation is about making choices

It is more important to me that every Australian child has access to two years of universal preschool education than a property investor is able to get a tax subsidy for buying their tenth property.  

It is more important to me, and to Labor, that we have the best early childhood education system in the world, instead of being the only country in the world that gives cash refunds on share dividends to investors who didn’t pay income tax in the first place.

We will make these calls, so that we can deliver profound and essential social and economic reforms which set the nation up for future generations. 

Universal three and four year old preschool will transform our early education system - I think in the same way that previous generations made decisions to lift the age which people left school, just as previous generations made the decision to provide universal access to university. 

Just as those decisions changed the opportunities for previous generations forever and for the better, we can do this in our time.

Sometimes, as I travel around Australia people ask me: “Why do you want to be Prime Minister.”

This is one of the reasons why. It is to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one that we receive from our parents. To leave the place better than we found it.

We are all just passing through. And the ability and the importance of leaving the place better than we found it, I think that is an excellent reason, why we should invest in universal preschool.

These are the sort of reforms which will actually help improve people’s lives and set the basis for improved prosperity in Australia, fairly distributed across the whole nation. 

Under a new Labor Government, the early years of a child’s learning life will not be left to chance, to postcode, or to a parent’s wealth. Instead, every child will have universal access to preschool, to kindy, no matter where they live. 

This will cement our early childhood education as the fourth pillar of our education system, taking its rightful and overdue place alongside schools, TAFE and university.

Our reform means that when a child starts school at five, they'll have solid foundations in social skills and group play. And all those things you just can’t get from a screen: play-based learning, problem-solving, co-operating, making friends, basics of reading and writing and maths, much more easily mastered as they approach school.  

Children who complete two years of preschool program perform better in later school results in literacy and numeracy - it is a fact.

We also know that if children are doing well at school by year three, they are more likely to finish year 12.  

It’s a bit like the miracle of compound interest, compound learning.

What you learn as a three year old has a multiplier effect, on everything you learn after that year.

That’s why an extra year of preschool for every child is one of the fastest and most reliable ways to lift the outcomes for individuals and to lift results across all of our system.

Our plan will help close the gaps of disadvantage, it will help tackle the inequality faced by children who are in low-income households, currently denied educational opportunities that their peers may have.

And the evidence, the science, is 100 per cent clear: this reform will deliver positive benefits to everyone's child, to everyone’s niece, to everyone's grandchild. 

Two years of quality preschool education in this country for every Australian child is our vision - and in government we will provide the practical dollars and resources to deliver it.

It starts by putting back the $20 million that the Liberals have cut from the National Quality Agenda to ensure that safety and learning standards are monitored at every centre.

The states and territories have everything to gain from our plan for universal preschool for 3 and 4 year olds and we look forward to working with premiers and chief ministers to deliver this program without increasing costs for families.

I've been working with Premier Andrews and we'll share some more details later this morning, he's very enthusiastic about the benefits it would deliver here in the education state.

In government, I've asked Amanda Rishworth to draw up a new National Partnership Agreement on preschool, with individual state benchmarks for enrolment and performance.

And let me be very clear, that agreement will also include hard targets for keeping fees and out-of-pocket costs down.

We will come down like a ton of bricks on providers trying to inflate profits from educating our kids, there will be nowhere for privateers and profiteers to hide.

We will ensure that our investment supports every child, whatever setting their parents choose. And we will not allow unscrupulous operators to game the system, or if extra funds come into the system, to try and gain an even greater share for their private profits. 

I do not want parents stuck on that grim treadmill, where both are working full time to pay for child care, so that you are able to work full time.

If I’m Prime Minister, I want universal preschool to mean just that: accessible and affordable for every Australian family.

It is a good goal: universal, accessible, quality early childhood education for every three and four year old.

And to help the states and the sector deal with a new generation of three year olds enrolling in preschool, we will also create a new $100 million National Preschool Facilitation Fund to assist with finding the spaces, also by better utilising long day care centres and preschool services.

But with all due respect, to the federal politicians to the state premiers, to the people who own or operate the preschool and childcare centres, they're not the most important people we'll be counting on to deliver this vision. It is the early childhood educators themselves.

As I said earlier, we need a permanent change in the way we talk about the work early educators do for our society.

Early childhood educators are so important. They are the first people to whom we trust our precious children, outside the family unit.

We ask them to take charge of our child’s day-to-day wellbeing, their emotional development, their understanding and engagement with the wider world.

And yet we have been stubbornly, unforgivably slow to match our words of thanks and praise with a better deal on pay and conditions.

I can promise that if I’m elected Prime Minister, I will not simply expect Australian early childhood educators to do more with less or even just the same.

If we want quality outcomes, if we want professional standards, then we need to treat our early childhood educators as the professionals they already are.

Nothing is more important to me than raising the status of teaching and educating, at every level.

I will work with United Voice and other unions, I will work with employers, I will use every instrument, every mechanism available to government, to ensure that early educators are paid for the valuable work they do - and that parents do not face higher fees.

I want to do away with this argument that somehow the only way that early childhood educators can win, is if parents do worse. But we simply cannot ask early childhood educators to subsidise the learning and development of our children.

And, of course, we don’t just need to pay early educators more, we need to train more of them.

Labor has already committed the funding of an extra 200,000 university places through the next decade, including vital degrees like Masters of Education.

In our first term, we are going to waive the upfront fees for 100,000 TAFE places in high priority courses, not just early childhood education but definitely including early childhood education.

My very capable deputy, Tanya Plibersek and I have said this many times: we want teaching and educating – at every level, school, TAFE, university, the early years – to be a profession that school-leavers compete to get into with the same ferocity that they compete to get into other courses.

The same competition, though, for the same reason: because it’s rewarding work, because it is respected community work, and because it is well-paid work. Because I want early childhood education to be a career, not a sacrifice.

I said at the beginning of this speech that Monash is a special place for me.

I came here as a student because my mum, a teacher herself, taught me the value of education.

But I was also able to go to this university because of Labor governments which believed in opening the doors of higher education to everyone who studies hard.

It's one of the best things about our world-class universities: studying for a degree in this country is still, by and large, an opportunity that you earn, not a privilege that you inherit.

I think this is Australia at its best: when we match our determination to achieve excellence, with our faith in a fair go for everyone. When we build for the best in the world and we include everyone in those opportunities.

It is the story of Medicare, and it is the story of superannuation, it'll be the story of the National Disability Insurance Scheme when we get that back on track, it is the story of the changes that opened the doors of these institutions to a previous generation.

I hope that in ten and twenty years time we can look back at today's announcement and say that what we announced today is part of that tradition. 

Not fiddling around the edges, not one year by one year funding, not piecemeal stop-gap approaches, not treating education or early childhood education as a political problem to be band-aided.

But instead at the centre of a clear and profound national mission: two years of quality, universal preschool education, taught by qualified early childhood educators, for every Australian family, regardless of their circumstances.

You know, in the past month or so, I’ve had quite a few people come up to me in the street and say: “Oh, well you must be confident that you’re going to win the election now because the other side have been so divided and hopeless.”

It is as if, somehow, some people believe that the appalling behaviour of the current government disqualifies them to be taken seriously.

I don't actually take that from the madness of the last few weeks and months, in fact I take the exact opposite.  

The shambles that we’ve seen from the current ruling coalition of this country, has created I think a deeper problem, a challenge of demonstrating to people that politics in this country still has a proper purpose, that politicians can actually do better.

The challenge is bigger than who wins the next election. It’s about restoring trust and confidence in our democratic system itself.

People want vision. People are over short term and they want long term plans.

I say to you here and to other people watching, I feel that responsibility, that pressure, that obligation to prove to Australians, that through our ideas and our plans and our vision – that they shouldn't be pessimistic, that they have some cause for optimism - because we can do better and we will.

I do not want the next election to be decided by the ‘least worst’ option. I want the next election to be about the next generation, about greater opportunities for Australia in 2030 and 2040.

About preparing every Australian child to compete and succeed in the society and the economy of the future, empowering every Australian child to get the best start in life to fulfil their innate potential.

Labor’s universal access to preschool for two years is a plan and an investment in a smarter country, a stronger economy and a more equal society.

I think the true test of an idea is not how it feels today, but whether or not we could assemble here in five and ten and fifteen years time and look back and say, well that was the good and obvious thing to be done.

It's how we can, I think, deliver on government’s most important job: handing on a better deal to the next generation. 

That is what animates my steady and stable and united Labor team.

It is how we can ensure that every Australian child shares in our nation’s founding promise: a fair go for all Australians.

It's quite remarkable really, 80 of the listed players are Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders, that's about 11 per cent of the competition. Not bad when you consider that Aboriginal people make up 3 per cent of our population, it's a great accomplishment. 

Good morning to all my fellow Collingwood supporters in the house, well done to those of you already getting into the celebrations early on. 

I'd also like to extend a good morning to all of the West Coast fans who are here. 

You're fresh off the bye from last weekend, I hope you enjoyed the public holiday yesterday, I hope you stick around for the new one starting Monday: the first ever Nathan Buckley Day. 

And good morning to all the other footy lovers who are hoping it's a good game and Collingwood lose. 

I'd like to say a big thank you to North Melbourne for having me back for my fifth breakfast and my third Liberal Prime Minister. 

To Gil McLachlan, congratulations on another great season. On a personal note, thank you for sorting out a babysitter for my wife Chloe and I today. 

I don't speak a lot of French, but she seems like a very nice lady. And the kids are rapt with the polo pony, Gil, thank you. 

To Scott and Jenny, welcome. And Scott, well done on your debut this morning. 

I know you're new to the game and you might not know all the rules but don't worry, they're going to change most of them by this time next year. 

Now this is a special day, it doesn't matter if you're a six year old who's just done your first year of Auskick or a ressies full forward preparing for your 18th annual footy trip, everyone wakes up on grand final morning a little bit nervous, a bit excited. 

My 8 year old daughter loves AFLW, she's already a much better footballer than her Dad and that's after two training runs. But I am proud to say - as Ben Buckley alluded to - I was involved, in a modest way, in Collingwood's famous 1990 premiership. 

Back then I was at university, working part-time at Victoria Park as a ground attendant, a blue coat, tunnel E of the Rush stand.  

For a Collingwood supporter, that was a great gig: penalty rates on the weekends, discount beers at the social club, sometimes I was close enough to hear Leigh Matthews unleash on Brian Taylor. 

And of course most of the time you just sat there, doing nothing, listening to people shouting abuse - a bit like parliament really.

Of course pies fans are a passionate bunch, so you had to soak up a fair bit of their encouragement.

And when I say soak up, I mean it literally - not for nothing did we wear raincoats

But of course just before the siren used to go at the end of the match, the job of the very important blue coat was to march out onto the ground, turn and face the crowd. In theory we would stop people from running on until the second siren had gone.

Each of us had about a five metre span to cover, mine was down at the Turner Street end.

I don't know why it was, but there always seemed to be a lot of large men, lots of tattoos and intimidating moustaches, there was a fair bit of motorbike leather too - and they always wanted to run through me. 

I remember there was one guy, he'd be 120 kilos at least, he liked to stand or balance on the fence and he would point at me and say:  “I’m coming right at you mate, right at you to get to the centre”.

And I’d yell at him: “No you’re not”.

Because if he ever jumped the fence, I was out of there.

Anyway, to Mad Dog and the boys, I hope you're going well and I hope you've forgotten who I am. 

But it is good about football isn't it. I should add that Victoria Park, amongst other things, is now home to the Collingwood Football Club Community Centre, which drives so many great programs like Magpies Nest, looking after people who are homeless, working with the salvos.

Collingwood's not unique in that, and indeed, AFL is not unique amongst football codes in this. There are so many great stories behind football clubs, so much that they do which isn't seen, and there'll be so many great stories out there of all the 44 players and for their fans who love football.

I think today we are all lucky to live in a country that has invented the greatest sport on earth.

I just want to speak to the consumers and the growers and the people of Australia to explain why we support this legislation and our view about the current matters. 

We do fully support our growers and we fully support our farmers. 

We will support these laws. 

The Shadow Attorney General has gone through some of the issues and concerns, however we will support them.

Very briefly on the actual laws; they impose very strict penalties. 

They will act, we hope, as strong deterrents for anyone considering the stupid, cowardly and frankly bizarre act of tampering with the fruit and veggies that Australians eat.

Now, I acknowledge that there are already significant laws in the states and the Commonwealth.

We are proposing to amend these Commonwealth laws and on this occasion, we will support it. 

But in the broader-sense - and I'm keen to talk to the Prime Minister about this - as some of the immediate urgency around the contamination of some strawberries abates, I do think that we need to have a national discussion about what we could have done better in the last few days. 

Tampering with food, though rare, is not unprecedented but it seems that this matter has caught our authorities and experts off guard. 

So I believe that whilst you wouldn't want to assume that all matters are resolved, we should have a discussion about what can be done better.

And the first of those I want to suggest to improve people's confidence is that we need to review our inter-jurisdictional arrangements with regard to food sabotage incidents. 

I think the national crisis management protocol would be useful in situations like this and given there are international implications with our brand, of our quality of our exports, the Commonwealth Government should be the one to lead it.

So far, whilst everyone's tried to do the very best they can, it would appear that some of the process has been uncoordinated between the states, with different states and authorities taking different approaches. 

I think even now in the benefit of near-hindsight, it would appear that some of the approaches, talking to growers, may have caused significant damage to the industry, fed the media frenzy and indeed perhaps, incited and invited copycats. 

Labor wants to see us adopt a different approach to stop this kind of incident turning into a major crisis with long-term potentially harmful implications for the industry. 

So we need to have a better way of handling this nationally.

This issue, although rare, should not have caught our authorities off guard and I think some of the coverage and some of the debate and different responses has potentially caused more harm than some of the initial nasty acts of sabotage. 

Another suggestion I've heard in recent days can be to set up a procedure, similar to plant and animal emergency response, whereby a mechanism is used to address the issues in a coordinated way between all levels of government and industry. 

This means that you could possibly provide compensation to affected industries through a levy set at zero but activated in emergency response. 

These ideas we can work through over coming days and weeks and months but this does need to be on the COAG agenda.

And Labor notes that there are other horticultural issues which have been languishing which need addressing:


Be it contamination of our prawn industry of white spot
Be it the concern over the poisoning with the frozen berries
And indeed some debate and issues around rock melons. 

What we need is stronger action and coordination that we're not immediately responding to issues in the frame of a crisis but rather we have anticipated potential challenges and then we can react in a calm and cautious manner, a sensible way which doesn't cause greater damage than even some of the damage we're trying to remedy.

I would also like, at this point, to invite Australians to spare a thought for the fruit pickers, for the casual and itinerant workforce who rely upon this seasonal work for their sustenance. 

I hope the Government will not be inflexible at the Department of Social Security for people who perhaps might be forced back onto unemployment benefits because the work which they'd expected to be picking fruit has been snatched away from them as a result of this immediate situation.

But here and now, I say to the people of Australia, the most important thing this Parliament can do is to show our complete confidence in the quality and safety of the food that Australian farmers and growers produce. 

I think the most immediate important short term action isn't to thunder about all of the other issues but it is to rebuild confidence in the strawberry industry. 

Or put in other words, any of us who have the opportunity to speak publicly on this matter should not use our position to inflame fear but rather to rebuild confidence. 

So I would like to thank all of the Honourable Members who have shown strong support for growers in a host of innovative and entertaining ways. 

Doesn't matter if it's the Member for Longman, the Member for Hunter or the Member for Casey, our speaker, every member in this place who represents strawberry-growing communities.

We understand how important it is to buy and eat strawberries as usual - and maybe even a bit more than usual. 

So to all Australians, I simply say we have encountered food scares before and we've come through the other side with no worries whatsoever. 

So on the way home tonight, if you're in the supermarket on the weekend, we encourage people to grab a punnet for yourself and a punnet for the nation. 

We encourage you to have them fresh, to go to the favourite recipe, to put them to use. 

We would encourage the major supermarket chains, now is not the time to be hunting the best bargains you can off strawberry-growers but instead to recognise that we need to reassure people about the quality and confidence of our food chain. 

So we say to Australians, cut your strawberries up, don't cut your farmers out. Chop the strawberries up, don't throw them out.

The Minister for Health, who has had to go having concluded his speech, my colleague Catherine King, the Shadow Minister for Health and Medicare, the Leader of the Greens and of course our many parliamentary colleagues.

One of the best things about being Opposition Leader – and it’s not a very long list – but one of the best things about being Opposition Leader is that it gives you the chance to move around the nation to visit people who work in our health care system. 

Since the last election, I’ve personally been able to hold more than a dozen roundtables with GPs, all around Australia - regional and metropolitan. 

I've heard and we’ve spoken about ice and addiction more generally.

We’ve spoken about better support for people living with dementia.

And about the challenges of chronic disease, of obesity and of course the importance of preventive health

My colleagues and I have made a priority of speaking with GPs because we understand that you are at the frontline in terms of the battle to keep Australians healthy.

But you and your 39,000 colleagues are also essential to preserving the universality of Australia’s health system. You are the people who fulfil the promise of Medicare, who are so important to ensuring that we keep health care accessible and affordable for all Australians.

Something that sets GPs apart is the relationship and understanding you build with your patients.

Because, really, the Australian people trust you with the most important thing in their world, the health of their family.

And I hope that amidst all the daily stresses and strains of your job, the time pressures and the emotional commitment to which you've got to commit to make your vocation meaningful, I hope all of you find a moment periodically, a moment or two, to realise quite how much you mean to Australians. 

The report that we are launching today speaks to the overwhelmingly positive view that people have of their GP and of the care they provide.

But it also outlines some of the big challenges facing your profession and our nation's health, more generally.

In particular we see issues around funding and, again, I note that the patient rebate, the Medicare rebate, is the number one concern of practitioners.

Because the freeze in the Medicare rebate puts GPs in a very difficult position. You either have to absorb the growing costs of running your practices, or you'd have to pass it on to your customers. 

But there is an unwritten assumption, every year that governments freeze the rebate, the expectation is that you will do more with less. And when that comes with the requirements of providing quality care for patients with complex conditions, people with multiple chronic diseases, older patients with more complicated health conditions, then the challenge becomes even greater. 

And of course the increasing number of Australians seeing a GP for assistance with their mental health shows that – as a nation – we are getting a lot better at talking to professionals about this than we have been in the past. But of course as people are willing to open up more, what that means is that we need to do a lot more to invest in specialist resources for mental health.

There are ongoing concerns, wherever I go, that are echoed again in this report, about a continuing failure to prioritise preventive health.

We see that across the board but in particular with obesity.

You know, I'm like a lot of parents, I’m worried that our children are being force-fed junk food advertising while they’re watching television. And this democratic right that adults have to feed other people’s children with sugar. 

The challenge of obesity is one which parents have to confront but of course it's one which doctors have to treat. 

Then of course, along with the rebate and the challenges of being required to do more with less, and the challenges of obesity there is aged care. 

There are a lot of problems in the sector, 4 Corners is scratching the surface in that regard.

But because of my time listening to GPs, I was aware much earlier than 4 Corners that there is a crisis in aged care.

Of course, when I said that in the Parliament of Australia, the Government attacked me and said I was fearmongering. We can never, in the political discourse, be afraid to tell the truth for fear of upsetting people. On the contrary, that is what our job should be.

What I hear from GPs, especially GPs who are working or doing practices related to aged care facilities, is that the financial recognition and compensation that the work requires is not being matched within the system.

At the moment the rebate for a visit to residential aged care facility is $59.35. A lot of the time that’s less than you would receive for the consultation in your own practice if you spend the time in the same way.

So when you factor in the time involved in providing good care to older Australians with multiple and complex health needs, including many people in these facilities who are living with dementia.

When you factor in the extra pressure of working on your own, without the support of your network or your practice. When you look at the difficulty in establishing a continuity of care, a working relationship with the providers. And then you factor in even just the travel.

The story in aged care is the story for too many GPs around the nation, you’re being asked to do much more with a lot less.

And we don't need a Royal Commission in two years to tell us that this is a problem, you can just talk to your GP.

This is where parliament needs to step up - and we should not use the Aged Care Royal Commission as an excuse to delay solutions where we know they are required now.

We need to put the resources behind our GPs on the frontline now.

It’s our job to make sure that you have the support and the incentive and facilities to do your job.

This will be Labor’s priority, for the health of the nation.

I was just saying to some of the people outside that I love coming to Tasmania, I love Tassie, I love Hobart.

I actually took Chloe here a couple of months ago for her birthday earlier this year. 

It's rare for us to get away, just the two of us, because you know you've got to get somebody to mind the kids, and in case you hadn't heard, there's a national shortage of nannies in this country. 

I didn't know there was a shortage of polo players but there you go.

I'd like to thank Julie Colins for her generous introduction, I'd like to acknowledge all of my federal colleagues who are here today. 

I'd also like to particularly acknowledge the fantastic Bec White. 

Bec, you and I both know that being Opposition Leader isn't a job for the faint-hearted. 

It's not something that when you go to school and talk to kids in year 12, they don't list that on their to-do list when they leave school. 

But I think you'd probably agree that it's the best possible apprenticeship for the next job. It's the best possible apprenticeship for leadership. 

Like everyone here, I can tell from the way you have brought your team together, from the genuine enthusiasm  you spark in the people who meet you, and the courage of your convictions, you are going to be an outstanding Premier of Tasmania. 

Now traditionally at these conferences we reflect on our Labor history, we look back at the giants from our past and we draw upon their example. 

But I want to submit to you today that we don't need to turn back through the pages of the history books of Tasmanian Labor to find our inspiration. 

It was only 43 days ago that the eyes of Australia were upon Braddon, and all the way through that marathon campaign we knew that it was going to go down to the wire. 

But on polling day, once Turnbull had flown out after he'd finished pointing his finger in voters’ faces in Ulverstone, telling them that they were wrong - that's always a good way to get a vote - once that Prime Ministerial jet swooped into the air majestically about 3pm, the Liberals started to pack up their things and they went home.

I think they thought they had it in the bag, the champagne and the oysters were on ice. 

But meanwhile, as that sun was going down, that cold was creeping in on all those booths in Burnie, and Wynyard and Smithton and Penguin, Justine Keay and her team were still shaking hands. Still smiling. Still taking every opportunity to ask Tasmanians to choose better hospitals over bigger banks. 

I was very proud of the Labor family that day.

The army of volunteers on every booth. 

Julie Collins putting up bunting in Devonport at 4am and – incidentally -  she picked the result within about 40 votes.

Our Senate team and Brian Mitchell and Ross Hart and Anita Dow and Shane Broad - they were everywhere.

Anne Urquhart in particular, a vital part of the campaign and a true friend in need and support for Justine right throughout.

I want to say, delegates, it is possible in the tumultuous times intervening in the last 43 days to perhaps overlook what you accomplished in Braddon at the end of July. 

You didn't just return Justine to Canberra, you sent Malcolm Turnbull to New York.

Tasmanian Labor helped change the direction of a nation that day. You changed the face of politics. 

You made a bit of history. We made a bit of history. 

And we did it the true Labor way, with the passion of our volunteers, and the power of our ideas. 

My team and I have spent the last five years developing a comprehensive and social economic program for the future of Australia - from everything from education, to penalty rates, to climate change. 

But today, rather than go through all the policies, I want to talk about just one issue, my number one priority: health care. 

It is the number one issue in Tassie. 

It's a number one concern right around Australia. 

Because sometimes we can over-complicate politics, can't we? The observers, the commentators. 

Nothing matters more in the world than your own health or if you don't have it, and, of course, the health of the people that you love. 

If your health is OK, if your family is OK, then everything else becomes a possibility. 

But if you're doing it tough, or someone in your family is doing it tough, that tends to dominate everything else, as it should. 

Since I have been Labor leader, I have made it my business to visit every part of our health system, in every part of our country. 

I have been early morning to ambulance bases, I have visited children's hospitals. From emergency departments to aged care, from the sub-acute rehab facilities for people battling the scourge of ice, right through to specialist facilities for Australians going through chemo. 

I've spoken to people going through a rough spell, recovering from heart surgery, coming to grips with the early stage of dementia. 

I've met parents who live with the nightmare of being unable to protect their child from a childhood cancer. 

There are not words for children and families who endure these challenges, or the way they go about it. 

But from everything that I have been privileged to witness and observe, from everything that I have seen and I have learnt, the first thing I will say about our health system is very simple: thank God for the staff of our health system in Australia.

You know, nurses and health care workers, doctors, paramedics, allied health professionals, hospital orderlies -  the allied health professionals. They all do a pretty remarkable job, don't they? The speech pathologists, the occupational therapists, the physios. 

And they work in all kinds of challenging circumstances. 

It is physically and mentally demanding work - all hours of the day and night. Moving patients in and out of beds, helping people shower, and eat, and toilet, and take their first steps to recovery. 

It is always under time pressures, there is always stress and urgency. 

You always also have got to be emotionally 'on', for the family and friends, and the patients, most importantly, taking their emotional cues of recovery from the demeanour and the energy of the staff. And there's never any room for error. 

As you know, as I know, when your child is sick, perhaps the fever is getting worse not better, the cough isn't going away, or heaven forbid it is something even more serious, in that moment of vulnerability where a parent's greatest nightmare is their inability to protect their child, there is nothing more reassuring than the calm, compassionate grip of the nurse who says, "Don't worry. We will look after her." 

The health care workers of Australia put everything into their job, and it is not right that Liberal administrations keep cutting funding and support and expecting, and indeed, relying upon the work of the staff to make up for the lack of leadership of Liberal governments. 

How can we ask hard-working people in our health care system to keep doing more and more with less and less? 

All Australians deserve better than this. Because when Liberals cut funding for health care, our nation pays a price. 

The Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison Medicare freeze has inflicted upon Tasmania the second lowest bulk billing rate in Australia.

Under the Liberals:


The average out-of-pocket cost to see a GP in Tasmania is up by 26 per cent.
The average out-of-pocket cost to see a specialist in Tasmania is up by 42 per cent.
One in 10 Tasmanians don’t see their GP, because they simply can’t afford it.
And emergency department wait times are the equal second worst in the country.

Less than seven out of 10 people, are seen inside the recommended time.

On the mainland, half of all patients will be seen in an emergency department within 19 minutes.

But in Tassie, you now have one in 10 per patients waiting two hours.

This is the result of Liberal health cuts for Tasmania - for every Tasmanian, your neighbours, your family, your friends.

It's a result in terms of seeing your GP, seeing a specialist or the emergency department: you wait longer, you pay more and you have to travel further.

Regional communities, not just in Tasmania, are suffering a doctor drought, people suffer in greater proportion: from obesity, asthma and osteoporosis. 

It’s why I’m really pleased, and full credit to Justine Keay, that one of the first things Labor will do for Tassie is put back the $4.5 million that the Liberals have cut from TazReach.

Because if you live in the North West of Tasmania, you shouldn’t have to fly to the mainland to get the care that you need.

Friends,

We know that general practitioners, the family doctors, are the frontline when it comes to keeping our people healthy.

But every day that the Liberals remain stubbornly in charge of our health system, is a day closer to the American-style, user-pays, system where getting sick means going broke.

And if they keep throwing up cost barriers between our fellow Australians and the GPs, then people will either put off seeing a doctor until they are much more sick, or they will turn up at the emergency ward and increase the pressure there. 

It is why Labor will always protect Medicare, it's not just the fair thing to do, it's the most efficient, it's the most effective.

It's why our plan for Tasmania will put back the money that Abbott and Turnbull and Morrison have cut from Tassie hospitals. 

And I'm proud to say that a new Labor Government will invest an additional $30 million in the Tasmanian health system to blitz the waiting lists.

Four years of Will Hodgman's hospital cuts have created a health crisis in Tasmania, and the waiting times for elective surgery are amongst the worst in the nation. 

So let's be clear - when we talk about elective surgery, we don't mean the cosmetic stuff. 

This is Tasmanians living with chronic pain, knees that ache every minute of the day, hip problems that restrict your mobility and your independence and your happiness, cataracts that prevent you from reading the paper or watching your grandkids play sport. 

Tasmanians are waiting too long for operations that are essential to their quality of life. 

Tasmanians are being treated as second class Australians by hospital cuts and Liberal neglect. 

A new Labor Government nationally will cut the Tasmanian waiting lists in half to begin with, because we will always put the health of Tasmanians ahead of the interests of the top end of town, full stop.

Friends, there are the universal struggles of our health system and this is some of what I've mentioned, but there are a unique set of challenges that our generation is the first to confront.  

There is the scourge of ice eating away at communities, families and endangering the lives of our emergency services personnel. 

We also have a new generation of Australian military veterans who deserve better support with their transition back to civilian life. 

There are hundreds of thousands of Australians living with profound and severe disabilities, and their families and carers who are still waiting for the NDIS to work the way it should.

And there is a crisis in aged care. 

Over 100,000 Australians have been assessed as needing extra support to live with dignity in their own home, they are waiting in vain.
There are the challenges of abuse and neglect of older Australians. 
There's the pressures on the staff who are not getting the support, the training or the fair pay that they deserve. 
Today, 244 Australians will be diagnosed as living with dementia. There will be 500,000 Australians who will be living with dementia by 2025. 

We need to have the long overdue national conversation around childhood obesity and sugar, and the way that junk food can be force-fed to kids through relentless, targeted television advertising. 

And, of course, there is mental health, especially for young people, but also for adults, especially outside of our capital cities. 

Growing-up has never been easy, but in an era where social media means peer pressure can operate 24 hours a day, we need to make sure there's support for our young Australians when they need it. 

This is why, for starters, we're going to put in the money to open a new headspace in Burnie, because what happens in regional Tasmania matters as much as Sydney and Melbourne. 

And it's as fundamental as this isn't it - that if we do not get serious about these challenges now, if we don't start putting the resources into our health system today, we will be the first generation of Australians to pass on to our children an inferior health system than the one we inherited from our parents. 

But amongst all of these challenges in health, the final health challenge I wanted to touch on today is all too common and it's all too cruel. 

And I'm sure that for many of you in this room, one way or another, cancer has brushed up against every Australian family. 

They call cancer the 'emperor of all maladies' but it's also, unfortunately, tremendously normal. 

My mother battled breast cancer, my cousins have had to fight it, my aunt, and little ones in my family. 

If you've ever had a loved one caught up in the struggle, you know it's not just an emotional and a physical ordeal, it's too often exhausting and impoverishing as well. 

More than a quarter of Australians with cancer pay over $10,000 out of their own pockets during two years of treatment. 

It is unacceptable that Australian women with breast cancer pay $750 for a scan. 

We are a rich country, we are a generous country, we are a smart country - we can do better than this. 

If someone you love is in the fight of their life, you shouldn't have to save and scrimp for a flight to the mainland every time you need chemo or a scan or a test. 

The system should be there for you and your family when you need it no matter where you live, no matter how much money you've got in your pocket. 

Australians have paid for their health care system through their taxes, through Medicare. It is right and appropriate that Australians who have contributed to our national health scheme, receive the support when they need it, regardless of their personal wealth, regardless of their individual circumstances, regardless of the postcode of where they live in Australia. 

And let's be really straight with each other today. 

Delivering better care for Australians battling cancer matters far more to me, and to you, and to Labor than someone who is negatively gearing their seventh income investment property.

This current government loves to say that somehow us prioritising health care and being able to pay for our promises to Australians is setting one group of Australians against another. 

Leadership is about making choices. 

You may be able to claim a tax deduction for your seventh negatively geared property, but to me it is more important to use that tax concession in the future to fund you when you're in the battle of your life or someone in your family is in the battle of their life. 

It is much more important to me, and you, and Labor, to help over 100,000 older Australians waiting for aged care resources, that is much more important than letting people on high incomes minimise their tax through a discretionary trust. 

Breaking the cycle of abuse, and addiction, and violence that ice is perpetrating on so many communities and families - that matters far more to me than giving someone earning $1 million a $17,000 tax cut in 2024.

I would rather that Australia was the best country in the world at helping people live with dementia than being the only country in the world that pays cash bonuses to people who don't pay income tax.

These are my values, these are Labor's values. It's the kind of Prime Minister I want to be. I will be a Prime Minister who puts the health of Australians ahead of unsustainable tax concessions for the top end of town. That is what Australians really want. 

And, to be fair, it's too nice a day, you're too civilised an audience, to waste too much time talking about the other side.

I haven't even made an Eric Abetz joke today. 

There are only two things that I really want to say about the other bloke. First of all, Mr Morrison needs to be open and truthful about bullying in his party. 

Bullies are not entitled to the protection of secrecy, and they certainly should not be protected by the deliberate silence of an Australian Prime Minister. 

And if you want to know the difference in our priorities that our parties do about putting women in parliament, you only need to look at Tasmania. 

We have a fantastic team of great Labor women, compared to the collection of has-beens and never-weres and Eric Abetz.

Secondly, I notice that the other fellow always tries to criticise us for the 'politics of envy', but that's actually a million miles away from what our policies are about. 

I, and you, and Labor do not begrudge people who have made a lot of money. I'm happy for them. 

But I just don't think that people, the very few, who are already doing very very well, should be the Government's first and only priority. 

Funding hospitals is about decency, not envy. 

Helping vulnerable people is about compassion, not jealousy.

Tackling inequality is about understanding that you judge a society, not just about how the very best are doing very well, but how the most disadvantaged are going. 

No nation can be rich when we have 100,000 people sleeping rough. 

No nation can be rich if we have women treated less fairly than men. 

No nation can be rich when our farmers are in drought. 

No nation can be rich when we have people waiting for aged care packages, where we have people looking for their National Disability Insurance Scheme packages. 

No nation can be successful at the expense of disadvantage and inequality. 

Inequality denies the nation the contribution of all Australians, and that is such a dreadful waste.

I promise you, that if we are elected, my Labor administration will not walk on the other side of the street away from the people in need. 

And I hear, though, the current Prime Minister saying the other day that a big part of his philosophy is: "We look after our mates." 

That is the problem. The Liberals do look after their mates, they look after their donors, the big businesses, the vested interests. 

They look after the people with money and power and influence to pick up the phone to talk directly to the minister, or via the CEO of the AFL, to the minister. 

But this is not how it should be in this country. This country should not be governed by the principle that what you know is less important than who you know. 

This is why, for example, we need a national anti-corruption commission to make sure that the same rules apply to everyone.

You're actually not looking after Australians, when everyone else, other than Liberal mates, have to wait longer in the emergency department, pay more to see a doctor, drive further to get that lifesaving scan, wait longer for a vital operation, or, indeed, an elective operation, or if you're an Australian who just misses out altogether on the help that you need. 

This is what the conservatives don't get, have never got and will never get. 

The fair go is not some corporate brand name, it is not some trade mark that you can register. 

You can't just magic the fair go into existence by constantly repeating the word "fairness". 

It's not something that you can pin on your jacket to remind you every day of why you do your job. 

Fairness is not measured by words alone, or by focus group testing. It is the test of values. It is the test of policies. 

This is what the next election will be about - values and policies. 

It will be a choice between Labor's decision to fund and defend a health system which is the same for every Australian. 

It's a choice between that and the same old Abbott-Turnbull-Morrison agenda of cutting hospitals and Medicare to fund tax breaks for the very well off. 

It is a fundamental choice about what matters to you. 

In our party, we choose health and hospitals and Medicare and aged care every time, no compromises.

I said at the start of my address that a Labor conference is sometimes the opportunity to look back at Labor history. 

So many of you would be aware of this simple fact - at a federal level, Labor has only won from Opposition on three occasions, three times since the Second World War.

So, despite the self-indulgence, the self-destruction, the narcissism of the other side in these past few weeks, I can assure you that I and our team, take nothing for granted.

There is not a shred of complacency in the work we currently do. 

I said at the beginning, being in opposition is not a glamorous gig. I am proud, though, of the way my team and I have spent the past five years. 

We are united as a party, we're focused on policy, we are steady in the way we conduct our matters. 

I actually believe that Australians are hungry for something better than the Punch and Judy show - the politics as usual, the politics of destruction, the politics of tearing-down your opponents, rather than promoting your case by your own positive ideas. 

I believe that Labor does best when we present Australians with our economic and social program. 

I said five years ago when I became Opposition Leader that I had an ambition for Labor and an ambition for the nation. 

My ambition for Labor is that when people ask for a how-to-vote cards at the polling booths at election, they would know what we stand for. 

I had an ambition for Labor that when people choose to vote for us, to trust us with their vote, that we would actually do what we said we would do, that what was written on the label was actually what you were getting. 

Now, I believe that we are fulfilling some of that ambition. 

When we go back to parliament tomorrow, we will be focusing on the people of Australia and the Liberals will be obsessing about themselves and fighting amongst themselves. 

We are determined to present at the next election, policies which earn the respect of people. 

We do not rely on the negatives of the Liberals flowing into a vote for us. 

We believe that this country can do better in health care. 

We have a vision - not only to maintain the health system that we've got, but to make it better. This is our vision for healthcare in this country. 

And today, and every day, we will promise Tasmanians, we will promise Australians, that a Labor Government will mean a stronger, better health care system, where it is your Medicare card, not your credit card, that guarantees you quality health. 

And because this is a Labor gathering, our words are always a promise for action, a promise that we will deliver better opportunities and a more equal future for our First Australians, nothing can be more Labor than that promise.

Delegates, Queensland means a great deal to me.

This state is the birthplace of three of the most important things in my life: the Australian Workers Union, the Australian Labor Party and my wife Chloe.

Not in that order, darling.

I say that with respect to this party in Queensland for well over a century, it has been Queensland Labor that has given Labor nationally, ballast. You are the inheritors of a tradition which gives weight and stability, purpose and incentive to our cause.

Not just because the Labor Party's foundation was inspired beneath the tree of knowledge but because time and time again, Queensland Labor has shown the power of progressive governments to bring hope into people’s lives.

You are the inheritors of a tradition which goes right back to T.J Ryan and William Forgan-Smith.

The statement that you give ballast to Labor was true of Goss and Beattie and Bligh, and it’s very true of your very remarkable Premier, Annastacia Palaszczuk. 

It's a bit easy in the digital age in the twelve hour media cycle to perhaps not take the time to reflect on how much has been accomplished by Queensland Labor.

You should hold your heads up in the family of Labor nationally because in decades past, when our party was falling apart elsewhere, in the bleak years of the Menzies era, true believers could always look to Queensland and your accomplishments.

From public health to workers’ compensation, they could see what Labor can achieve in government, we in the rest of the nation could draw upon the ballast of Queensland Labor in power.

And Queensland Labor is very special because of what you have given Australia.

You gave us the first majority Labor Government in the world, under a Queenslander Andrew Fisher legislating for aged pensions, you wove together the first strands of the social safety net which we rely upon today.  

Just imagine if we’d had that great Queenslander, Ted Theodore, as Prime Minister in the 1930s, Australia would have come through the Great Depression very differently.

And we know that that last statement is true because of the way those two great Queenslanders, Wayne Swan and Kevin Rudd navigated Australia through the Global Financial Crisis.

Every time you take your child to the doctor and get out your Medicare card, we should think of that great Queenslander Bill Hayden, the architect of universal health care in this country.

It is why this gathering today is so important, it is why the Queensland Labor conference does matter so much, because the decisions made here can help set the direction of the nation.  

Now delegates, some things have changed a great deal since our last conference together.

Annastacia Palaszczuk has won a second term as Premier. Outstanding. 

Malcolm Turnbull has left the building, in fact he’s left the country.

Julie Bishop is on the back bench.

And Peter Dutton is in all sorts of trouble.

I mean, seriously, what is the go with the au pairs? 

Who would have thought that such an arch conservative, inspiration to the Institute of Public Affairs, was secretly working towards a nanny state!

But delegates, some things are still to change.

The LNP is still in government in Canberra.

Now they’ve changed titles but they haven’t changed who they are.They haven’t changed their economic plan, one iota.

They are still cutting Queensland schools and hospitals, still cutting Queensland TAFE, still cutting child care for Queensland families, still cutting Sunday and public holiday penalty rates. 

They're still desperate to give billions to the big four banks and the top end of town.

LNP climate change sceptics still rule the roost, dictating energy policy and driving up your power bills.

And in Moreton Bay and Emerald and Bowen and Ipswich and Logan, people are still saying to me, that everything is going up, except their wages.

But on the plus side friends there is one other thing which hasn’t changed from the last conference,  and it’s something we can be proud of, Susan Lamb is still the Member for Longman.

Have no doubt, the Longman by-election was the beginning of the end for Malcolm Turnbull.

Queenslanders called him out.  You called him out. You changed the nation.

And, delegates, at the next general election I’m asking for your help to do it again.

Because despite all the shambles, the narcissistic selfishness on the other side, I and my team do not stand before you with any sense of triumphalism. I promise Queenslanders there is not one shred of complacency in me or my team.

I take nothing for granted.

My team and I appreciate the size of the task in front of us.

Since the Second Word War, Labor has only won government from opposition three times.

And I understand that if we are to win the next election, the privilege to serve the nation, we have to win Queensland – from the suburbs to the regions.

We have to earn the respect and trust of Queenslanders.

This is what I learned when I was the Federal Secretary of the Australian Workers Union.

Whether it was underground at the George Fisher Mine at the Isa, or in the sugar mill on the South Johnstone near Innisfail.

Whether it was formerly at the BP refinery at Bulwer Island, or the council workers at Pine Rivers, or hospital orderlies at the PA.  

I've learned from everyday Queenslanders that you must put in the time, you must listen to people before you talk to people.

It's why Chloe and I went to Ilfracombe and Longreach two weeks ago to talk to farmers and small businesses and contractors battling drought.

It’s why I promise to keep going to Biloela and Townsville, Mackay and Maryborough, 50 other towns that you could name. 

I will continue to visit every part of your state, because I want to present Queenslanders with a plan for every part of your state.

And Labor's Plan for Queensland begins with delivering a better deal for working people.

A better deal means a job that lets you pay the bills, plan for the future, have some time with your family, a bit of quality of life.

So first, we are going to restore Sunday and public holiday penalty rates for 360,000 Queenslanders, in our first 100 days.

And then we are going to put the bargain back into bargaining, so employers and employees can sit down to negotiate improvements without the unfair threat of termination of existing agreements and wage cuts hanging over every conversation.

And we are going to take action on insecure work, so I particularly today speak to those tens of thousands of Queenslanders who work as labour hire workers.

Because when your job is insecure, it means that when you’re sick, you don’t get paid.

You don’t get holidays. Your job may be there when you come back, or not.

You certainly can’t get a loan, good luck getting a mortgage.

There’s no such thing as redundancy. You don't have any say in your roster.

You just wait each afternoon into the night for a text message to know if you’re working the next day.

You all know the people we’re talking about, in the regions and in south-east Queensland. 

But in particular I want to talk to those older Australians, who work insecurely. 

You know them, we walk past them, we see them. 

They are people with desperation in their eyes, their hi-vis doesn’t quite fit, they're physically tired, they're wondering how it came to be that in their 60s they’re doing more physically-demanding work, more insecure work and less well paid work than they were in their 40s. 

That was not the promise they had when they joined the workforce a generation or two generations ago.

And friends, we are going to stop this. We’re going to change it.

Because if you do the same work as your colleagues, you do the same hours, the same classification, the same skills - then you deserve the same wages, the same security.

Do you know what we call our policy, which we're going to turn into a law? 

It's just four words: Same job, same pay.

And when we talk about fair pay, there can never be a conversation about fair pay in this country until the women of Australia receive equal pay.  

Yesterday was the end of the first two months of the financial year. This landmark means that effectively the women of Australia have worked those two months unpaid, compared to their male colleagues.

This is the reality of the gender pay gap. Women get paid 14.9 per cent less than men, so the women of Australia have effectively donated their first two months of work this year financial year, unpaid. This is unfair.

My fantastic daughter Clementine is here today. She’s nearly nine and she's lucky enough that this is her 10th Labor party conference.

But at this current rate, the gender pay gap will not be closed in her lifetime. It will in fact not be changed until her great-grandchildren are in the workforce.

Australia has to do better this. Australia can do better. Labor will do better - nothing less than equal pay for work of equal value.

And I think we need to discard the notion that somehow, woman are paid on merit and this explains why there are 'feminised industries' in the debate, that somehow, the work they do is the reason they get paid and that somehow, it is justified - it is not.

Because let's go through what some of the conservatives call, feminised industries:

•         educating our kids in those first 1000 days of life
•         helping the National Disability Insurance Scheme live up to its purpose
•         it is the people who care for our elderly parents in their later years

The people who do this vital work deserve greater recognition and better pay and Labor will deliver true equality in the workplace.
Friends

In our party, we understand that there’s nothing more important to a Queenslander than the health of their family, quality health care for people you love.

All of us who have had the experience of taking a sick child to the hospital, all of us who have felt the reassuring compassion and the firm grip of a nurse who tells you: ‘Don’t worry, we will look after her,’ we know how important a good health system is.

There is no issue any more important in the national political debate.

And that’s why at this conference, we re-dedicate ourselves to our pledge: Labor will always protect Medicare and we’ll put the money back that the Liberals have cut from Queensland hospitals.

We’ll tackle surgery waiting lists, so Queenslanders can get the knee replacements and hip operations to ease that chronic pain, or have their cataracts removed just to improve their quality of life.

When surgery is available to alleviate pain and the only reason why Australians live in pain is because we're not funding the surgery to remove it - that's not good enough, that's not government and Labor will change that.

We will deliver more MRI machines for towns in the regions, on the coast and in the outer suburbs, we will fund more urgent care clinics, we will make sure chemotherapy units for Queenslanders battling cancer are more available. 

Because when you are in the fight for your life, you should not have to club-together with other patients to hire a maxi taxi 50 minutes in one direction to get to Brisbane Central then 50 minutes back, just to get the treatment that other Australians take for granted.

Our fellow Australians should not have to wait weeks and months or pay thousands for a vital scan.

Australia is rich enough, Australia is smart enough to make sure our health system is there for you when you need it - we do not want to go down the American road where getting sick means going broke.

Friends

When it comes to this vexed issue of climate change and energy prices, Labor has plan for Queensland that is about more renewable energy, for cheaper power and more jobs - that's it.

We will deal in the simple facts: climate change is real, it hurts farmers on the land and businesses on the coast.

Renewable energy is going to be cheaper and it means we are going to leave our children a healthier environment to live in.

What we will promise Queenslanders is no more delay. We've wasted a decade arguing about energy prices, in the meantime, prices have gone up and our action on climate change has stalled.

Labor, if we get elected, our promise to Queenslanders and Australians is: vote for us, we will just get the job done. We're sick of talking about it like everyone else - action now.

Delegates

It was last year at this conference I committed a new national Labor Government to a people’s vote on an Australian Republic, with an Australian head of state.

I’m asking you to join us in supporting that cause again today.

An Australian head of state doesn’t mean putting the country on hold, it does not mean disrespecting our history. It won’t stop you watching the next royal wedding, or the new season of The Crown.

But 248 years after Captain Cook first got into trouble on the Great Barrier Reef, it’s time that Australia faced the world with the confidence to declare we are running this place ourselves. 

It’s time that our head of state was not the head of another Royal Family but a member of our Australian family.

One of us, for all of us. Simple as that.

Labor’s plan for Queensland will mean building new infrastructure and creating new jobs, right around this great state.

We've just heard from Premier Palaszczuk talk of her frustrations with dealing with the current incumbents.

Annastacia, we will put money into building Cross-River Rail, here in Brisbane – 7,700 jobs in construction, another 550 ongoing. 

You've earned it, you paid the taxes, you deserve Canberra to support you. 

We’ll invest in the suburbs, we will build the Park and Ride stations at Mango Hill – and elsewhere - so in the morning, you don't need to get an uber from your car to the station.

And we’re going to put major funding into widening the M1 between Brisbane and the Gold Coast, because unlike the LNP, we don’t see infrastructure as a beauty parade between road and urban rail.  

It's not an either/or, great cities, great regions have both and under a Federal Labor Government, Queensland will get both.

But we know there’s so much more to Queensland than the South-East Corner - and if I didn't, Annastacia Palaszczuk would tell me again. 

What we are going to do is extend the Bruce Highway to Cairns Airport. 

We are going to deliver Stage 2 of the Mackay Ring Road. 

We will invest in better water security for Townsville, we will build a new flood levee for Rocky – and, at long last – we are going to put Commonwealth dollars to build the Rookwood Weir.

We are going to widen the Port at Townsville, to bring in more cargo, more naval vessels and more tourists. 

We’re going to build that Port Access Road at Gladstone.

And we’re going to get behind a new project to ease congestion on the Bruce and boost liveability in Rocky.

What we are going to do is work with the Queensland Government to relocate the Bruce Highway to the west of Rocky with a new Ring Road. 

This will take thousands of trucks off local streets. It will turn that regional airport into a freight hub. 

We want to back Rocky.

And, delegates, today I am pleased to announce that a new Federal Labor Government will invest $500 million to upgrade Queensland’s inland road network.

Queensland is like no other state and the people on the coast have family connections west of the Dividing Range, this is a lesson I have learned in my journeys here. 

You are the most decentralised state in Australia, half of your state’s economic activity takes place outside of Brisbane. Labor is determined to ensure that every part of Queensland gets top-quality infrastructure

Now, for generations, the primary focus has been on upgrading the Bruce, and that is a most important task.

But as a result, from Canberra, crucial regional roads have not received the investment they deserve:

-       the Barkly Highway between Mt Isa and Cloncurry
-       the Capricorn Highway between Emerald and Rocky
-       the Mitchell Highway from Cunnamulla to Charleville
-       the Kennedy Highway between Cairns and Mareeba

Some of the roads around Longreach and Winton have barely had an upgrade since Banjo Patterson was up there writing Waltzing Matilda.

And whilst some of these regions are traditionally regarded as safe LNP - that is not the issue for us.

Because when these roads are not up to scratch:

-       drivers’ safety gets put at risk
-       truckies are forced to go the long and expensive way around
-       the cost of moving goods on these roads increases
-       flood damage is a bigger problem than it ought to be
-       and – of course – the same few reliable roads are more crowded.

If I’m Prime Minister, I will work with Premier Palaszczuk on a staged upgrade of more than 3000 kilometres of road – and up to 300 bridges. 

We will rebuild these beef roads because when I travel across Queensland, I do not see LNP electorates or Labor electorates - I just see
Queenslanders, that's what we should be doing.

Labor has a plan to get the arteries of regional Queensland pumping again. 

We want to make it easier for farmers to move cattle and sheep and feed.

We will put inland Queensland at the heart of our infrastructure plan.

And by the way, we'll create up to an extra 13,000 new jobs while we do it. 

Delegates

Clearly, it is in the Labor DNA to know that the best thing that we can do to secure a child’s future, and a nation's future is to give those children a quality education. 

We have to make sure our children get that individual attention to nurture their talents, to help them fall in love with what they’re good at, to discover what they like doing. 

And education doesn't start in the first year of primary school, it starts in those all-so-important first years of life, the early years and continues in our schools and beyond.

Some of you may know that my Mum was a teacher, my Dad was a fitter-and-turner then a seafarer,and he worked on Melbourne's docks when he came ashore. 

They both always said to my twin brother and I that we could go to uni or we could do a trade - they would support whatever choice we made. 

So I'm going to keep faith with my parents. If I’m Prime Minister, I am going to offer every young Australian that choice: a trade or uni, we're going give them the choices. 

We are going to open the doors of university even wider for working-class kids, the kids who come from families where no one has ever graduated from university before. 

We will do that in the suburbs and the regions, regardless of postcodes. 

And when it comes to skills and training: Labor’s backing public TAFE all the way.

In our first year, we will get to work, working with the Queensland Government to renovate, rebuild, upgrade TAFE campuses, right around the country.

And in our first term, we will create 100,000 free TAFE places right across Australia so that Australians young and old can train and re-train in high-priority sectors with no upfront costs.

We say to young Australians and their parents, and older Australians who want to re-train, if you want to go to TAFE, we're going to help you learn a new trade, full stop. 

If you vote Labor:

We will use TAFE to make sure that Australians are ready for good jobs.

And we're going to put Australian apprentices front-and-centre on all tax payer funded projects, one out of every 10 employed on any
Commonwealth funded project must be an apprentice. 

And when it comes to tightening-up skills visas, if I’m Prime Minister, I can promise Queenslanders that Australian workers will get a fair go and they will get first go. 

Because when 720,000 people can’t find a job. 

When over 1 million Australians would like to work more hours but simply can’t get them. 

When we have hundreds of thousands of people stranded on the disability support pension. 

When we have job-seekers who have given up work altogether. 

When apprenticeship numbers have fallen in this nation by over 140,000 places in the last five years.

Companies should not be simply allowed to import skills to fill positions, when we should be training our own.

Today, at Queensland Labor Conference I announce a new Labor Government will establish an independent labour market testing body – the Australian Skills Authority.

The Australian Skills Authority will have two responsibilities:

First, working with unions and business and training providers and state governments to put together one, consolidated list of occupations with legitimate skills shortages.

And second, once we have that list, getting those occupations off that list – and keeping them off.

Because I believe, and Labor believes, no skills shortage should last one day longer than it takes to train an Australian to fill that task.

Did you know that if Labor’s plans for better TAFEs and stronger visa standards had been in place these past four years, there would be 120,000 fewer workers here on 457 visas. This is the delay and missed opportunity of conservative governments.

And what we also promise, is we will ensure that labour market testing is a compulsory part of any and every future trade agreement that Labor signs in government. 

We've been having such a nice time here that you've probably noticed that I haven't wasted much time talking about the other side today. 

But the problem is they’ve already wasted five years of Australia’s time. 

So there’s only one simple point I want to make about them: this week’s Prime Minister is still last week’s Treasurer.

The Treasurer who presided for three years over the lowest wages growth on record.

The Treasurer who is the architect of the $17 billion giveaway to the four big banks and the Treasurer who spent every day of the last number of years fighting for this one point economic plan. 

And I have to say this plan hasn’t disappeared, it’s just in hiding.

Scott Morrison wrote the budgets that cut $160 million from Queensland hospitals.

He signed-off on every LNP cut to Queensland schools and TAFE and child care.

And he still wants Australians to work until the age of 70 before accessing the age pension. 

Now, it is true, the Australian people never voted for Scott Morrison.

But he has voted eight times to cut their penalty rates.

The Australian people never voted for Scott Morrison.

But he voted 26 times against a Royal Commission into the big banks.

He has been at the centre of every cabinet decision by the Abbott and Turnbull Governments.

And, sadly, a change of job title doesn’t change any of this.

What we need to remember amidst all the self-indulgent civil war last week, that none of the fighting was about changing their policies. The LNP have given up on that.

The LNP have lost the will to govern, and every day they fight, the big decisions of this nation are being put off time and time again. 

They would rather spend their time fighting each other than fighting for Australians. 

They have let our country down - and Australians will judge them for it.

The idea that a majority Government simply shut parliament down, because it was all too hard, is an abdication of responsibility. 
Imagine everyday workers saying "it's all too hard." On a construction site, if you had that, you'd have the ABCC all over them like a rash. 

The point about this is, this is a government who has stopped governing. 

Do you know, last Thursday night, the Thursday night before all of this happened, when the Government disappeared, people still were at work, businesses were still businesses, carers were still caring, 10 million dinners got cooked that night. 

The Government didn't stop any of that - but the job of government is a bit bigger than that. 

The job of Government is to lift the eyes of the nation to a better Australia for all Australians. They are simply not interested in that. 

So, in conclusion delegates, I looked across two days ago and saw former Vice President Joe Biden, Democrat give a speech at the funeral of
Senator John McCain, Republican.

These two men had spent had decades on opposite sides of the US Senate, fierce political rivals but they did share a deep respect and a long friendship.

Biden eulogised McCain as a man who saw politics as a clash of substance, as a test of values, as a project bigger than the individual.

That’s what I want the next election to be about: substance, values, a contest of policies.

I promise Queenslanders, indeed I promise all Australians, that we are not complacent in Labor. 

We do not assume that the negatives of the Government automatically flow into the positives for Labor. 

We want to earn the respect of people.

We want the next election to be a test of who has the best plan for the future of our country. 

This is how we restore faith in the system, it’s how we lift the eyes of the nation to a better Australia.

And I want Queenslanders to know this about the Labor Party and the labour movement: we are up for this contest.

Our team is united, we are steady and stable, we are focused on the future.

We have the plans and policies to fulfil the fundamental aspirations of the mighty Australian people, to bring the fair go back to the heart of our nation.

Because we know that fairness and equality are not just social goods, fairness and equality are the best economic strategy for the future.
If you deny an individual opportunity, the nation misses out on their contribution.

But when we enable every Australian, regardless of their background or their faith or their gender or their postcode, if we enable every Australian to fulfil their potential, then we are a more prosperous and successful destination. We hand on a better Australia to our kids than we inherited from our parents. 

So, delegates, when you leave here, and whenever the election is called, when people ask you what does a vote for Labor mean - you can say, with pride and confidence:

A vote for Labor means a plan for Queensland.

A vote for Labor means a better deal for working people. 

It means protecting Medicare and funding hospitals

A vote for Labor means a quality education for every child and quality child care for every family. 

A vote for Labor means clean, affordable energy powering the economy and doing right by the environment.

A vote for Labor means dignity and comfort for older Australians, it means equality for the First Australians. 

It means a strong and independent  public broadcaster, the ABC and an Australian head of state. 

And delegates, a vote for Labor means a government that will work hard every day to deliver a fair go for Queensland and a fair go for all Australians.

Today it is clear that we have a Prime Minister in name only.

He is a Prime Minister without power, he is a Prime Minister without policies.

He has scraped home at the last election with no authority and no agenda and only the ability to respond to events.

But today, we have seen an appalling outcome for the nation.

It is unbelievable that even though, yesterday, the Prime Minister said he could not take any action on energy prices because any single member of the Government could veto it, today they have highlighted that they are even more divided.

This is a Government whose conduct is selfish and shocking. It is a narcissistic Government, consumed with their own jobs and their own struggles and they have forgotten the people of Australia.

The case for no confidence in this Prime Minister can be made through five arguments.

The first is if the Prime Minister's own party don't want him, why on earth should the Parliament put up with him?

Two, we have dismal paralysis on the energy crisis which is affecting Australia: driving up prices, driving up carbon pollution, and no government can retain the confidence of this Parliament if they tell us they can't even advance legislation to drive energy prices down.

The third proposition why we should have no confidence in this Prime Minister, is that the hallmark of his Prime Ministership is that whenever his beliefs meet the opposition of his backbench, he surrenders his beliefs.

And this Parliament should not put up with a Prime Minister only interested in surviving in his own job. He stands for nothing and fights for nothing except his own job.

And his notorious poor judgment is a hallmark which any Government backbencher is happy to tell you at length, anonymously.

But more importantly than the first three reasons which I will go through, there is the fourth. Australians have got real issues, and this government is not addressing them and no amount of valedictory speeches from the Prime Minister can correct that wrong.

And finally, the reason why we should have no confidence in this Prime Minister, is that your government is hopelessly divided.

And it even isn't just about you any more, Prime Minister. The Liberal Government in this country cannot agree with each other on fundamental issues. And a divided government cannot run this country.

Turning to the first proposition, why we should have no confidence in the Prime Minister.

If the Prime Minister has nearly half of his MPs who want to change the Prime Minister today, then how on earth should all of us have confidence in him?

When you add together the 35 dissidents, soon to be a majority I suspect, and the 69 Labor MPs and possibly the crossbenchers, a clear majority of Australia does not want this Prime Minister to be the Prime Minister, we have no confidence in him.

I noticed before Question Time, at least the Member for Dickson, who had the integrity to go to the backbench because he couldn't support the Prime Minister on the front bench, he did his job interview. But what was telling, and why we should have no confidence in this Prime Minister, is five times he was asked was he going to challenge again? He had all the good reasons in the world not to answer that question.

So I say to Australians who are shocked by the turmoil in this government, the turmoil is not over until the Member for Dickson has the scalp of the Prime Minister hanging from his belt.

What is also telling is that for the 35 MPs who voted to change the Prime Minister, some of them sit on the front bench. Some of them sit on the front bench. 

We had the Minister for Health, desperate to replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs until he discovered that the numbers weren't there. Obviously, he is a lot tougher when it comes to swearing at grandmas than it is to challenge the Foreign Minister. 

And we have got the Member for Deakin, the campaign manager, campaign manager for the Member for Dickson, sitting quietly there as an Assistant Minister, your best days are ahead of you, Member for Deakin. 

But you can only conclude by the cowardice of the front bench rebels against the Prime Minister, that the Prime Minister's weakness is infectious. 

The Prime Minister's weakness is infectious and at least those who vote against the Prime Minister should have had the courage to say that we will undermine the Government from the backbench, not from the front bench of this government. 

But I said there was a second reason why we have no confidence in this Prime Minister. 

The handling of the energy policy by this government alone is a reason why this House should have no confidence. 

They have proposed that we should have, initially, an Emissions Intensity Scheme. 

We know that the current Prime Minister had a view on that. 

And we said we wanted to talk about that but as soon as we come to the dance, the Prime Minister is dragged away by the right wing of his Party. 

Then the Prime Minister rolled out the poor old Clean Energy Target and the Chief Scientist to advocate it, that didn't last very long. 

Labor is prepared to be bipartisan and then what we discover is that when it comes to energy policy, the Prime Minister when he refers to ‘bipartisanship’ means getting the two waring wings of his own party to agree. 

And then, of course, we have the much unloved National Energy Guarantee, NEG 1.0, NEG 2.0, NEG 3.0. 

This is a government whose energy policy is guided by the never-ending panic of the Prime Minister. 

And the reason why we have no confidence in the Prime Minister is that if he is too weak to legislate policy, if he's too weak to fight for what he believes in, how on earth will we ever lower energy prices in this country? 

And I do not accept that when the Prime Minister announces ‘mission accomplished’ on energy prices, when he and his and his Treasurer and Home Affairs Minister, and potential contender for the Prime Minister's position, when they announce that energy prices are coming down, go and talk to real Australians, they just don't agree with you. 

But this is the real issue, the third issue.

We have a Prime Minister whose premiership of the position, his stewardship of the Prime Minister's position, has been marked from day one that he never fights for the principles he believes in. 

He never understands that when you appease your critics, when you surrender your principles, your critics come back and they want more and more - and now they just want your job.

Your critics in the Liberal Party and the conservatives, they can smell the weakness within the Prime Minister.  They can sniff the weakness in the Prime Minister. They can see the vulnerability in this Prime Minister.

And no matter how many times the Prime Minister changes his views on climate change, no matter how many times he changes his view on the Republic, advocating now the morbid argument that you can't be a Republic until the current Queen passes away.

He keeps giving in, and let's remember, his judgment on the Banking Royal Commission. The Prime Minister has notorious poor judgment because he does not actually fight for anything he believes in. 

I thought that when this Prime Minister rolled the previous Prime Minister, I thought that we would see a different kind of politics. That we would have a sensible form of politics.

I thought my job would be harder, I concede that, but I thought, at least, we could build a national consensus on climate change, on having an Australian Head of State, on actually doing something to look after the middle and working class of this country.

But the Prime Minister, having obtained the highest office in the land, we have discovered that he never fights for anything except his own job.

And of course, he has notoriously poor judgment. Only someone of Turnbullian genius could argue against a Banking Royal Commission for the last two years.

Only this government could have argued in favour of giving the states the right to have income tax powers, so there's double income tax in this country.

Only this government could still hang on to the corporate tax cuts to this point in the electoral cycle.

And here is a prediction: this Prime Minister is so afraid of people's reactions to him, he so craves positive polls, he so needs the approval of people - that you will drop the corporate tax cuts because you never fight for anything you believe in.

And there are real challenges facing the Australian people which deserve to be heard, which are getting neglected under this government, under this narcissistic, selfish, self-obsessed government.

And the Government MPs, a few of them are yelling out interjections - they know that the people of Australia are more than frustrated with their conduct today.

They know they have a government focused on themselves, not on the people of Australia.

There are real problems out there in Australian society. Wages are at a record low. I thought I was in a parallel universe last week when the Prime Minister said wages are getting better. They are at record lows.

And if you don't believe me, asked the people who are not getting a pay rise in this country. They don't live like you, they don't live like the people in Parliament. Many Australians have not had a pay rise, many Australians have seen their conditions go back.

We have many Australians in casual and part-time work, we have many Australians working in labour hire jobs alongside permanent workers, yet the labour hire workers are paid less.

We have many Australians who feel the system is broken.

And by the way, the conduct of the Government today, would give them no reason for optimism that the system is not broken.

There are other issues in this country which need to be addressed, one is the unacceptable blowout in waiting lists for aged care.

Look at this government, they think they are so clever. Every day the waiting lists get longer, and then you have to look at the general dismantling of our health care system under a government who would rather give tax cuts to private health insurance companies, rather than rein-in the premiums they charge Australians.

Then you look at our schools and our TAFE and our universities. This government is not properly funding schools, this government is not properly funding TAFE, this government is not properly funding universities.

And when you look at the ranks of this government, some of them perhaps genuinely don't understand these issues.But what chance do some of the backbenchers have when they have a Prime Minister so out of touch?

When they have a Prime Minister who gets up every day at Question Time and says how good things are going.

Tell that to the farmers experiencing drought, tell that  to young people who can't get apprenticeships, tell that to older Australians who can't get the aged care assessment they need, to get the support they require so they can live their remaining years with dignity.

And, of course, we've got to look at the mess they've made of child care. A quarter of Australian families are paying more for childcare than they were before this Prime Minister was the Prime Minister.

However, it is not just the division. It is not just the fact that this government is out of touch with the real issues of Australia, absorbed about themselves. And to be fair to the Prime Minister, if not all his fault alone.

The problem is that the Liberal Party of Australia is not the Liberal Party they once were. It is riven by fundamental disagreements at the heart of the government.

That is why the Member for Dickson feels the need to speak up for the Conservatives.

That is why so many of the brave, anonymous assassins of the Prime Minister over there, say that this government has somehow not living up to conservative standards.

This is a government at war with itself and as much as they may say it's not, as much as they say they are economic supermen, making Australia better for all Australians, the fact of the matter is, this is a government who is desperate to survive.

We know members of the backbench and brave members of the front bench, we know when you drop your silly corporate tax cuts, we know that is a battle won by Labor, but we know that war is not over.

We are determined, the best way to stop corporate tax cuts in this country is to vote Labor at the next election.

Look at the way this government has pursued the ABC. The old Liberal Party, the party of Fraser and Menzies, would not have attacked the ABC. Now we have the job specification of the Minister of Communications to be a serial complainant about the ABC and of course, we see the ongoing debates about school funding.

The best way to look after the government schools, the Catholic schools and independent schools is not to rob Peter to pay Paul but to properly fund all schools based upon need.

And this is a government who loves to talk about ‘big stick’.

In the game of Question Time bingo yesterday, this government had the ‘big stick’ on energy companies, the ‘big stick’ on banks.The problem is, at the same time, they tried to legislate tax cuts for the very companies they say they are tough on.

The real problem in Australia at the moment is that this Prime Minister is simply not up to the job and no amount of mogadon behaviour at press conferences after leadership changes can unmake this truth.

The reality is Prime Minister, you have 35 people behind you, who this morning voted not to have you as their leader -  and I predict that number will get larger.

Today, you may well have all the Government Members vote to have confidence in you. But doesn't that just show the parallel world into which this parliament has descended?

This morning, 35 of your colleagues who you thought were your great supporters voted to do you in. And on Thursday, or in two weeks’ time, or after the next poll which you worship so foolishly, what will then happen is more of them will do you in.

So let us be done with the dishonesty that this parliament has confidence in the Prime Minister.

Your colleagues don't want you, you've exercised notoriously poor judgment because you are as weak a Prime Minister as we've seen since Billy McMahon.

You are a dismal failure when it comes to energy policy, telling us it's not your fault, it's the fault of individual members of your government.

You have no idea how the real people live.

You are hopelessly out of touch with their views.

And finally and fundamentally, you lead a divided government and nothing you can do will change that fact.

The three points in that motion are taken - word for word, just about – from a motion Prime Minister Hawke moved in this Parliament on 25 August 1988. Thirty years ago, next week.

It does take, I have to say, in this world, you have to be pretty outrageous to be condemned by everybody in the Australian Parliament, but Senator Anning has managed to do just this. 

Condemned, because the blight of racism and discrimination is not new.

But truth is always the best defence against racism.

There is no historical experience and no contemporary evidence that race determines bad behaviour, none at all. 

As I've said, this is not a new debate.


Catholic and Jewish migrants have had to deal with discrimination because of their faith

Successive waves of Italians and Greeks, Eastern Europeans after the Second World War

Vietnamese migrants in the 1970s and 80s

Newly arrived Muslim and African communities are facing it now

The First Australians know all about the harm done by prejudice

But the simple truth is this: we are a stronger, better country because of all those who’ve come across the seas and joined their story to ours.


I move this motion today because we need to defend the great national convention of Australian politics: race is beyond politics.

I’m asking the Government, and I'm pleased the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs are here, to support a motion which re-affirms the great bond of the major parties, to defend our national sense of decency, our trust in Australia.

I'm sure the Prime Minister will say comparable things, because I know that he is not a racist.

And this statement will be stronger if it is supported by the members of the House of Representatives.

We should do this together.


In the corrosive and fragmented climate of public debate, it’s become unfortunately common for some to seek out attention by picking on minorities, the less powerful, by attacking in the most vile terms, normally someone who can’t defend themselves. 

Around the world, right-wing extremists are turning this into a political art form.

They say something hateful or homophobic or sexist or racist, something designed to humiliate and denigrate and hurt. And then when their comments are condemned they complain about ‘political correctness gone mad’ or the ‘thought police’ stifling their free speech, all the while basking in the media attention.

I understand that in one sense there might be a reason to simply ignore it, to starve the stupidity of oxygen, to treat it as beneath contempt.

But as leaders, as representatives of the Australian people, as servants of diverse communities in a great multicultural nation, we cannot stay silent in the face of racism.

We cannot ignore the kind of prejudice and hate that the Senator sought to unleash last night.

Free speech is a cherished value in Australian society but it is not an unfettered right to hurt, to bully, to intimidate, to make some Australians feel less equal than other Australians.

We have to call it out.

We must condemn it.

We have to speak truth.

We have to stand it against it, strong and united.

I acknowledge, already many Members and Senators, as word has gone out of this speech, have stood up and spoken out. I acknowledge their courage.

It is time for the Parliament to once again draw a line, to say ‘no more’.

No more racism.

No more crossing the street, no more turning a blind eye.

No more: ‘if we just ignore it, it will go away’.

This is not commentary in the social media, this is commentary in the Parliament of Australia. 

It is time for every serious political party to show the courage to put candidates who advocate racism last.

Malcolm Fraser knew this, John Howard got there.

It is time for all of us to say enough. 

No more deals with racist parties, no more preferences for racism.

When it comes to opposing racism, Labor will not hold back.

We will not play a straight bat, stay silent and hope for the best.

We know that racism fills the silences, discrimination thrives in the darkness.

The only way to stop it is to haul each of those hateful falsehoods into the light and expose them for the harmful fiction they are.

Labor is proud to be a party of multicultural Australia.The party of tolerance, a party to heal the nation.

Now, we weren’t always there. But modern Labor, from the time of Whitlam and Hayden, Hawke and Keating and Evans and Beazley and Rudd and Gillard. Not once has the inclination of modern Labor altered. 

Yes, we can establish better processes of integration. Yes, better promotion of understanding.

But let’s be clear that Australia won’t achieve any of what our nation’s great destiny can be by pulling the racist lever.

As Senator Wong put it this morning, dividing our nation does not make us safer.

I think it’s important to quote the former head of ASIO, the respected David Irvine.

He said:

“The tiny number of violent extremists does not represent the Islamic communities of Australia…
…it is grossly unfair to blame Muslims, who see themselves as a committed component of Australian multicultural society.” 

He went on to say:

“Our fight is with terrorism, it is not with Islam or with our Muslim community. The strongest defence against violent extremism lies within the Australian Muslim community itself.”

Senator Anning needs to understand this. What he seeks to do, when he undermines our national harmony, when he says some Australians are better Australians than other Australians, he risks weakening our national security.


Senator Anning’s speech boiled down to one big lie about Australia: that every challenge we face can be blamed on our newest arrivals.

That all of our problems can be solved by turning back the clock and closing ourselves off from the world.

But here is the truth about Australia.

We are a nation made great by immigration.

We are strong because we are diverse.

We are a richer, smarter, more interesting and more prosperous destination because of people who have built a new life here.

Many who come here just with the clothes on their back.

People who have worked hard, started early and stayed late, opened businesses, built communities, looked after their neighbours, raised children, served in local, state and federal politics, cared for their elders, paid taxes, worn the uniform of our country.

People from all traditions, who have added their story to our own.

People from every country who have made us a better country.

People of every faith who share a common belief in Australia.

What Senator Anning and Senator Hanson and some of the rest pine for is the supposed 'good old days' of White Australia.

But they're not just insulting new arrivals. They are denigrating everything that all Australians have put together in the last half century, whether their families have been here for one generation, eight generations or two thousand generations. 

And people who seek to lecture others about ‘Australian values’ need to know that racism is not an Australian value.  


As for the Senator’s use of the term ‘final solution’. 

A phrase torn from the darkest pages of human history. 

Two words which speak for the brutalisation and murder of millions.  

Two words that evoke fear and grief and trauma and loss in diasporic families all over the world, and many others.

The Senator ridicules his critics by saying these words need to be seen in their context. 

Well, that is exactly the problem. 

This wasn’t a piece of Twitter stupidity composed in haste. It was a first speech nine months in the making. 

The context of these words is prejudice, it is a speech filled with prejudice. 

And this, like everything else, deserves nothing but condemnation. 

It has always been easy for candidates who style themselves as ‘outsiders’ or ‘mavericks’ to blame minorities, to demonise difference, to try and divide Australia by putting the blame on one particular group or another. 

And truth and consistency doesn’t trouble these people. 

They say migrants are bludging on welfare – but they're also buying all our houses. 

They say they’re uneducated – but also filling our universities. 

The list goes on.

Let’s be very clear about this. Let’s just speak truth. 

Traffic jams on freeways and overcrowded trains aren’t an argument against migration, they’re proof that we need to build more better roads and public transport. 

Low wages aren’t an argument against migration, they’re proof that we need policies to boost pay, improve bargaining and restore penalty rates.  

The argument that people are being locked out of the housing market isn’t an argument against migration, it’s an argument for a fairer tax system and a level playing field. 

Crime is not a migration problem. Violence is not a migration problem.

No one on this side of the house is minimising the challenges that real people face in their daily lives, this parliament should put forward plans and policies to help. 

But we do not seek to insult the intelligence of the Australian people by blaming every problem in this country on decent, hard-working, law-abiding people who are just trying to make this a better place.

In recent times the great national convention of Australia - that race should be above politics - has been breached. 

Now it is time for all of us who seek to represent the national interest to support this motion, to prove that the convention has not been broken. 

To show that Australia’s major parties stand against racism and prejudice. 


But today I want to say that what makes a good Australian is not governed by the number of generations you've been here. Two thousand generations, eight generations or one. 

What makes a good Australian is not what god you worship, not where your ancestors come from, or how much money you have. 

It is not your skin colour, your postcode, your occupation or your gender. 

What makes a good Australian is what is in here, in your heart. 

What makes a good Australian is are you a good neighbour? 

Do you raise your family, do you pay your taxes, do you obey the law? 

Good Australians are not just born, they can become good Australians by choice. 

Good Australians are people who stand up for minorities, for the less powerful, for the fair go all round. 

A good Australian is not dictated by skin colour or worship. 

It is not dictated by what faith you adhere to.

It is whether or not you adhere to our laws and raise your family well.

A good Australian is the kindness you show in another's trouble and the courage you show in your own. 

A good Australian is someone who adheres to our values - and our values include standing up for the less powerful. 

I'd like to acknowledge the Prime Minister and members of the government and the opposition, the chairman of the war memorial and all other distinguished guests. 

I'd also like to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land, I pay my respects to elders past and present.

It was about a hundred and one years ago and 16,000 kilometres away, on the 20th of September 1917, that the 17th Battalion fought at the Battle of Menin Road. 

The lieutenant in charge of 11 platoon, C company, was a popular 21 year old from Petersham named Keith Seabrook. 

As he and his men moved into their frontline position they were hit by a phosphorous bomb. 

Keith died from his wounds the next day.

Keith's older two brothers, George who was 25 and Theo who was 24, were members of the very same battalion.

And in the same battle, on the same day, George and Theo were hit by the same artillery shell.

They were killed instantly, their bodies were never recovered.

Impossible to imagine. Three brothers, three sons. 

Three names out of the 102,800 that are stamped on the bronze at our Australian War Memorial. 

Later, during the conscription debate, their mother, Fanny Seabrook wrote to her local Member of Parliament. 

She said: 

“Having given our three boys as a sacrifice to the country, their loss I'll never recover -  and now my husband is a complete wreck. 

I have put my property up for sale as there seems no other way.

Mr Seabrook has been raving about all three boys, has delusions of all kinds.

Please pardon me for telling you these things, for I have no-one to confide in.”

When you think about the mother’s grief, it also makes me realise that sometimes the familiar words and phrases of commemoration can perhaps just wash over us. 

We can fall into perhaps the custom of talking in general terms and noble sentiment: of freedom, of sacrifice, of mateship and love of country.

But this book and the last post ceremony which it honours are the corrective to that.

They tell an immediate, powerful human truth of war and its costs. 

And every evening on the slopes of Mount Ainslie, the bugle calls us to the story of a young life, unfinished.

The Last Post plays for generations of brave men and women. 

But it also plays for the children left behind, for the empty pages in the photo album, the empty places at the table. 

It plays for the laugh that was never heard again.

Its notes ring out for the shattered family where a grieving mother apologises for sharing the details of her ruined life with her local MP because she has no one left to confide in.

This book records a ceremony which combines the best traditions of ANZAC and Australia: egalitarian and democratic, humble and human. 

Without varnish or vainglory it speaks for the courage of every Australian who has worn the Australian uniform. 

And without question, it also presents us another dimension of the Australian War Memorial.

A new moment of reflection and emotion and honour for our veterans, for the families of the fallen and for young and old visitors alike.

Truly, it is a ceremony for 'one of them and all of us'. 

I congratulate Doctor Brendan Nelson for his vision and Emma Campbell for capturing it with such clarity and depth.

It is a gift to bring to life again, even momentarily, the story of some who have gone. 

It was actually on Menin Road, near where the Seabrook brothers and 350,000 other members of Allied Forces died, where the Last Post Ceremony was born. 

Since 1927, from the Menin Gate which bears the names of 55,000 soldiers with no known grave, the bugle has sounded at the going down of the sun to call home the spirits of the lost. 

I don't know if you're all familiar with William Longstaff's famous painting, ‘Menin Gate at Midnight’. It shows ghostly figures in their translucent tin hats, falling-in. 

In desert and jungle, in mud and sand, in the skies and on the seas, fighting wars, tending the wounded and keeping peace, 102,800 Australians have given their lives. For their mates, for their family, for the free and democratic country in whose parliament it is our privilege to serve.

This book, this ceremony, the great secular cathedral that hosts it every day, brings one of those faces, one of these stories to life.

I'd also like to knowledge all my shadow colleagues who are here in such strong numbers and of course all of the mayors of north Queensland. Sometimes I feel I haven't been to Townsville unless I've caught up with Jenny Hill to get my visa stamped. 

Now, you of course obviously can see with Cathy, she's a fierce champion of the region but I know all of you are.

And I think that her colleagues, both LNP and Labor, have learned that Cathy O'Toole never, never, never ever gives up. I think even Clive Palmer is working that out.

Now, you are busy people. You've got limited time, you pay the nation's capital a compliment by coming here to advance the case for north Queensland.

I'm very pleased that you brought yourselves and more importantly, your ideas to the nation's capital. 

You do come from a very remarkable part of the nation. North Queensland is not only a beautiful place, it's full of remarkable communities and fantastic and wonderful people. 

From Townsville to Palm Island, Ingham, Charters Towers and all the destinations in between, there is a very strong sense of local identity.

As has been said, the region has its ups and it has its downs but I am a complete believer in a bright future for north Queensland. 

We're interested in the plans you have for your communities. And I also have to say here, I  mean it refers specifically to local government, local government is the level of government closest to the people.

I know that when I travel around and we seek the good ideas, I always start with talking to local councils and of course, the local development and economic and business bodies informing the plans for the region.

I do believe fundamentally in listening and I have to say, when I think about Townsville and all of my visits there and other parts of north Queensland, one of the things that I understand best about the region is the need to be on the ground. 

Now I know that when I'm on the ground, I like to go to the IMC steakhouse in Palmer Street, very hard to go past that. 

There's something about the way that Townsville restaurants lay out the slabs of meat, I imagine it must be what it's like when you look at expensive jewellery and you're presented with it to buy. 

And then of course, the next morning when I go to Townsville, you get yourself up early in the morning to go for a run. I always plan to run up Castle Hill and I have actually have done that, once. 

I normally just sort of meander along the Strand, slow enough so that the passers-by can say hello. 

And then of course, when you go to Townsville, you pop into 4TO, you get grilled by Pricey. 

I think he's done at least 28 mango seasons up in the district, probably longer. 

So I get it. I get that it's a great community, I get that it's full of ideas, I get it's full of opportunities.

But I actually do occasionally think that when I visit north Queensland, people there are actually wondering, does the nation's capital get them? 

I think Australians - and you don't have to be a north Queenslander to fit the following description - I think they're sick of the Punch and Judy show which is Canberra.

The LNP get up and say something, we attack it. We get up and say something, they attack it and in the meantime, people in north Queensland say - are they paying any attention to us?

And that's why I understand, when people look at the mainstream political debate in this nation, that perhaps it is appealing sometimes to have ‘outsider’ candidates, people who are seen to be beyond the standard politics-as-usual business.

But I've got to say, and this is the first point I want to make this morning before I get into the issues for north Queensland. It may be superficially attractive for people in north Queensland and indeed other parts of Australia, to start looking for the politicians who bag the whole system, who look for the easy scapegoats. Politicians who promise that you can go back to 1960 as if there's been no change since then and they'll never ever have to deliver. 

Now I want to make it clear, whilst I lead the opposition - on one hand, I get that we're sick of politics as usual but on the other hand, I'm not going to propose just simply bagging the whole system and trying to pretend to people that they can turn back the clock 60 and 70 years to a time which is long and truly departed.

I actually think that what we need in this nation is to move beyond the personalities, move beyond the easy headlines and look at the fundamental issues which drive communities.

I intend, and my team intend, to make the next election a contest of policies, a contest of ideas.

Who's got the best plans for the people? 

Now when I look at that, I don't automatically assume that people will just tick the box for Labor. I don't take anyone's vote for granted. 

What we ask from the Australian people is the judgement of the Australian people. 

If you agree that politics-as-usual is unsatisfactory, but if you agree as leaders, that simply getting up and saying you can turn back the clock and bag one minority of Australians or another minority of Australians and say: ‘That's all we need to do’.

And if you agree that policies are far more important than gossip and personalities, then what I ask from you is your judgement.

Not automatically your vote but your judgement about who is going to do the best for the region. 

Now that's why I want to go to what I think five or six of our great ideas for your region are and why I ask you to exercise your judgement. 

We have led from the front on the critical issue of water security for your region. 

When people ask me what's important, for example in Townsville and the surrounding area, I say it is water security.

A year ago, we committed $200 million for the hydroelectric power station at the Burdekin dam. 

I'm very pleased that the Palaszczuk Government has been moving in the same direction. 

We've said that we want to put $100 million towards stage 2 of your region's water security strategy. 

So that's one issue. 

We get the importance of water security and if we want the support of people in the region, water security is one of the most important issues for us. 

But we've also pledged $75 million to widen the access to the Port of Townsville. 

At the moment, barely 5 per cent of the container vessels sailing in Australian waters can access the Port of Townsville. 

This needs to change and when you look at tourism, it's the same story. 

Since the Quayside cruise terminal opened in 2013, Townsville shops and restaurants have benefited from the visiting passengers. 

But if the access channel remains at its current narrow size, by 2020, three of every five cruise ships will have to go somewhere else. 

Back in the 2015 Budget, the current Government set up the Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund. 

The money has sat unused ever since then. 

So what we intend to do, and Jason Clare who is here today has been working hard on this policy, is that we intend to put a billion dollars into what we call our Northern Australia Tourism Infrastructure fund. 

We want to make sure that visitors can visit your part of Australia and they get the best facilities, they stay as long as they possibly can and they keep returning because of the positive experience.

And when I talk about infrastructure, what we intend to make clear as well is if there's Commonwealth money attached to infrastructure projects, we're going to require that one in every 10 people working on these projects is an Australian apprentice.

And this goes to what I think is another priority beyond infrastructure tourism and water security, it is TAFE and training. 

We intend to renovate campuses, and we are able to because we're not giving tax cuts to big banks, provide the upfront fee payment for 100,000 apprentices across Australia in the first three years of a Labor Government.

We don't want young people to have to move to Brisbane or Sydney or Melbourne to learn a trade or to find an apprenticeship. 

But what we're also going to do, one of the most common refrains I hear in north Queensland is people feel that everything is going up except their wages. So we are going to restore the penalty rates for the nearly 13,000 people in Townsville who've had them cut.

Arbitrarily cutting penalty rates doesn't help an economy, it just closes wallets, it closes purses. 

When you look at retail and hospitality, they're two of the biggest employers in Townsville. And when you stop to think about it, when people on $40,000 and $50,000 have a arbitrary pay cut, that doesn't inspire confidence in expenditure it just dries up cash in the community. 

Of course we understand, that if you want to talk about wages and how people are going, equally fundamental to north Queensland is health care.

We overcomplicate politics in this country - we look at all the big stories. The fact of the matter is, that when you reduce politics for Australians to what really matters, it's about your family and it's about your health. 

We understand that when we properly fund medical institutions such as the Townsville Hospital, and make sure they get the full funding they need, that improves quality of life for all of the people who use these services. 

Now I understand that we're in opposition, and one of the great frustrations of opposition is every day you see opportunities that could be being acted on and we feel they're not being acted on. 

What we can do though, as an opposition, is put things on the agenda. North Queensland is in a sweet spot at the moment when it comes to national politics.

The national political debate is very close. It is very close. That means that if an opposition has the right ideas the government must follow or be left behind at the next election. 

What I understand is that if we have positive policies which we put out to the nation, the government if it wants to keep the votes of these same people to whom we're putting the positive policies, they need to match them or better them. So that is why your visit is very timely.

The outcome of the next election is by no means clear in either direction. But what it does mean is that for well-organised communities, with well-structured, well thought out, future-focused policies on communities and businesses in your region, you'll have the attention of both sides of politics. 

And what I want to make clear is if you like the proposal to widen the channel, if you like proposals about putting more money into water security, if you think it makes sense to make sure that we put more money into TAFE for example, then what can happen is that if we make these choices, if we make these commitments then it can put pressure on the Government to match them before the next election. 

And if you think that what I'm saying sounds a little idealistic, that the Opposition puts up policies and the Government tries to match them, just remember what happened with the funding for the new stadium. 

Cathy O'Toole had just been preselected. I think it was just around the time that Mr Turnbull had rolled the man he replaced and Labor's fortunes were not very high. 
But we came out then, at the end of 2015, and said we would put in money to the stadium in Townsville.

And of course the Government, sort of a bit arrogantly in my opinion, thought "Oh we don't need to worry about that policy, we've got everything under control." 

We made the running. We said there should be a top-class facility for the Cowboys. We set the agenda and by the time the election got into its final week, hey presto. So widespread was the support for this particular policy, that the Government had to match our commitment, and now the work is underway. 

So I want to put to you this morning in conclusion, there's eight months or so to the next election. You are smart being here in Canberra putting your ideas forward. 

If you have a common set of claims from amongst the communities of north Queensland, agreed priorities which are unequivocal, well thought out and well structured, then this is the right time for you to be here putting the case.
If you ask me what I think the important priorities are for north Queensland, in no particular order, but in regards as a sort of collective agenda, this is what Labor understands:

Water
Energy 
Tourism 
Health care 
Infrastructure 
Education 
Making sure that when we have Defence contracts and big Commonwealth contracts that local businesses get their fair share of the action - and that goes for all of the infrastructure
And also making sure we're inclusive, the more we can close the gap with our first Australians the better it is all around. 

And I think the particular proposition which people don't think fully realise about your part of Queensland is you are a defence community. So we need to make sure that veterans when they demobilise have the best possible support. 

So I think if we can work that list of items, that agenda for change, I have no doubt that Townsville and indeed the other towns represented here can do well. 

When you put all of that on top of resources and agriculture, I think there's a great economic story, there's a great quality of life story, there's a great inclusive story, there's a great story about fairness for north Queensland.

I love coming to your part of the region.

And it's not particularly well-known and I'm not sure if it qualifies me as a north Queenslander, but my parents when they first got married back in the mid-60s, Dad was a seafarer, mum was a teacher. The first place that they lived after they got married was Townsville. And my twin brother and I, whilst we were born in Melbourne, I think that process started in Townsville. So I love north Queensland!

The Labor Party in our first term as a government will hold a national referendum. We'll ask Australians a very straightforward question: do you want to have an Australian head of state?

Now, this question is not the only question for the nation to consider. There are many issues which Australians deal with in their daily lives, from their cost-of-living to their health care. 

But merely because Australians have plenty else to think about, is not a reason to delay thinking about having an Australian head of state. 

The Australian people are capable of engaging in more than one issue at a time, and it is well past the hour for Australia to have our own head of state. 

Our defence forces serve overseas, our diplomats serve overseas, Australian travellers go to every part of the world, we engage with Asia in a manner which was unthinkable even decades ago but what we need to do as Australia proudly asserts an Australian identity, is have an Australian head of state.

It is long past the hour for an Australian to be our head of state, someone born here, or someone who is an Australian citizen. 

And we need to have conversations with people. The future of whether or not we have an Australian head of state will not be decided by the members of parliament. It will be decided in cafes and workplaces, in universities, in TAFEs, it will be decided in communities. 

And it is a very important function of having the debate about an Australian head of state, in realising there is nothing to fear from being proud in our Australian identity, is being able to get out and talk to people. 

So we encourage, on September the 1st, have a barbie to support an Australian head of state.

Now, the by-elections were over two weeks ago, so I think it's important  - it was a great win, we're happy with the result - but the Australian people now expect us to get back to work and we most certainly will in the remaining weeks of the life of this parliament.

What we will do, as we said from Saturday night of the by-elections, is that those by-elections were important but what is really important is not the debate between Malcolm Turnbull and myself, or indeed, between Labor and Liberal. It's about us putting the priority of Australian families and Australians’ health, putting that front and centre. 

What's important to us is dealing with the common complaint that we hear wherever we go in Australia, that everything is going up except people's wages. 

So we will work between now and whenever the Government calls the election, we will work on a positive program for Australia's future, that's what the Australian people expect.

For us, out of the by-elections, the message is very clear: the people of Australia want the politicians of Australia and they want Labor to focus on the people, not on ourselves, and we most certainly will. 

I did notice though, in the last couple of days of the by-election, that the current Prime Minister made an outing from his Point Piper compound in the final two days and he went around, both in Queensland and in Tasmania, and he went around hectoring. 

He went around putting his finger out and pointing the finger at the people of Australia. 

He was belittling people complaining about cuts to hospitals.

He was belittling people complaining about the treatment they've received from the banks.

He was belittling people complaining about the fact that everything's going up except their wages. 

He was belittling people complaining about the cuts to the ABC and the cuts to schools and the fact that pensioners have been losing their energy supplements.

That performance should have sent a shiver down the spine of every marginal seat government member. 

And we came to parliament yesterday and we just saw it again, when you turn the volume down on Mr Turnbull, just look at his body language, it's all about pointing.

He has learned nothing from these elections except that he believes the people got it wrong.

I was amazed yesterday, when he knew the precise number of primary votes extra that Justine had received. He knew the precise number of votes in the Braddon by-election but he hasn't learned anything from the Braddon by-election.

He thinks the voters got it wrong, the voters didn't get it wrong. 

What is wrong is that we have pensioners being put behind banks.

What we said in the by-election, and we will continue to say every day to the next election, is for Labor, it's about better hospitals not bigger banks. 

And today, the Government is back to doing their favourite pastime, fighting each other. 
The only thing that is guaranteed to come out of today is higher power prices and less renewable energy. 

We have cobbled together today a Frankenstein's monster of a policy, whilst Mr Turnbull goes around attacking Mr Abbott, Mr Turnbull is in fact giving in to a lot of Mr Abbott's values when it comes to climate change and energy. 

What we will see is promises to deliver new money for new coal-fired power stations. We will see less renewable energy in the system which means higher prices. 

What we have now is the dreadful situation in Australia where Mr Turnbull is so weak that although he may call something an ‘energy guarantee’, the fact of the matter is he is surrendering energy policy-making in this country to people who do not believe in climate change.

And what we need to do is, every day between now and the next election, stand up for more renewable energy which will lead to lower energy prices and more action on climate.

For five years, the current Liberal Government has said that they will bring down power prices and in fact power prices have gone up. 

Tony Abbott was lying five years ago. Malcolm Turnbull's lying now.

The only thing you get when you have a Liberal Government in Canberra is higher power prices. 
We're going to take it on. We're going to challenge this. We are going to make sure that Australians have lower cost of living pressures. 

And we're going to keep running our push, running our campaign to make sure that we put schools and hospitals and pensioners before big banks and multinationals.

What a great night for the Labor Party
.
What a great night for Labor women candidates.

Actually, what a Super Saturday night it is.

Particularly here in Longman and in Braddon.

Right across Australia, our opponents have thrown everything at us in the last ten weeks.

But we've come through it in pretty good shape, I think. 

It's been a tough campaign, it's had our ups and its downs - ups and our downs. But tonight we've had two great wins already and I'm hearing pretty good things from Western Australia as well.

Four from four. 

And first of all, I want to thank everyone right across Australia, both here and watching this tonight for all of the hard work you've done. 

I want to acknowledge the leadership of our National Secretary, Noah Caroll, Julie-Ann Campbell up here in Queensland. And Paul Erickson and Stuart Benson in Tasmania and of course Matt Dixon in Western Australia. 

You know one thing about the Labor Party, which our critics and our enemies have underestimated all the time, that when our critics write us off in the media, when our opponents write us down and write the vision for Australia small, you can always count upon the rank and file of the labour movement, trade unionists and ALP members, to put your shoulder to the wheel. 

The truth about politics is, it isn't how you're going when you're going well, it's when you've got a hard fight ahead of you, when you get up and dust yourself off and you go hard. 

That is what I thank about the rank and file of our mighty labour movement. 

So, friends, can I say that tonight is another signpost into the destination that matters for Australians: A Labor Government after the next general election.

But tonight - this next bit of advice is superfluous - we should celebrate and tomorrow too.

But I do thank the voters in all of the electorates, because and I promised them, for the confidence they've displayed in us, for our mighty movement, it'll be back to work straight after our celebrations, back to the work that really matters. 

We will - and I promised the Australian people - we will continue the work of putting together a policy agenda for the next national Labor Government, a program which will re-win the confidence and the support of working class and middle-class Australians.

To the people who go to work every day - to the small businesses, to the farmers and to the pensioners, we promise to put fairness back into the centre of national life and to fight inequality all the way to the next election.

We know that our critics and our opponents have spent a lot of time attacking me, attacking Susan, attacking Justine, attacking the Labor Party. 

But I want to say to all of the people who voted in these by-elections, and to all Australians - those who voted Labor and those who did not - we pledge to you, we understand, unlike our critics and opponents, it is never about us, it is always about you -  the people of Australia. 

It is about, and we say this to all Australians, it is about your family, it is about your health. It's about the ability of getting good, affordable child care, about the ability to go to well-funded schools, it's about the ability to get an apprenticeship or go to university. 

It is about ensuring that as you grow older, you can ensure you have decent aged care, it's about making sure that it is your Medicare card, not your credit card that determines health care.

It's about making - it's about dealing with the fact which every Australian knows, that currently under this Government everything goes up except your wages and we're going to sort out the penalty rates and we're going to put working and middle-class people back at the top of the list. 

We're going to send her with a message from Queenslanders - money for hospitals, not money for the banks.

Thank you to Uncle Gordon for your welcome and I too acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet, and I acknowledge the elders both past and present.

And because we are at one of our mighty RSL's I'd like to acknowledge every Australian who has served or currently serves in the Australian Defence Forces - thank you very much.

I'd also like to thank my friend and your Premier of Queensland Anastacia Palaszczuk.

And could you give another very warm welcome to my favourite Queenslander, my wife Chloe.

And to Clementine and all the kids who are here, you’ve just reminded us that you're never too young or too old to come to a Labor Party event.

I started this beautiful Queensland morning over at Woody Point on the Redcliffe Peninsula for the Jetty 2 Jetty fun run, good use of the word fun.

Now I concede that I was a little slow out of the blocks but I’m pleased to let you know that I think it was my final kilometre of the run which was my fastest.

Now, that could have been of course because there were more people there cheering at the end. 

But I prefer to think it is not how you start, it is how you finish and this is the Labor way.

And in the next six days, we are going to run all the way to finish line to bring home a win for Susan Lamb and Labor and Queensland. 

It’s remarkable – Julie-Ann Campbell has said there's been a lot of hard work that has gone into the campaign so far, and I am very grateful for the efforts of every volunteer, every union activist, every community minded person.

But it is a tough fight. We are the underdogs. The book makers have the other mob as favourites.

And now of course the LNP and the One Nation political party have teamed-up again and are swapping preferences just to try and knock us, the underdog, off from winning.

And we do not have the big dollars like our opponents, and we do not have the media cheerleaders on our side.

But  what we do have, is we’ve got the best campaign team, we’ve got the best candidate and we've got the best policies for the people of Longman and the people of Queensland.

Our candidate, Susan Lamb she is a fighter, she knows what it is like to strive and then to succeed. 

She’s a single mum who loves her kids and loves her community.

She is and always will be a great champion for Longman.

And there’s the other fellow, ‘Big Trev' - never a good sign to give themselves a nickname.

Now he’s been - he's been in big trouble this week over what he says was just a big typo.

But to be honest, I think his Curriculum Vitae has other problems.

Like his years in Campbell Newman’s Government.

When the LNP cut hospitals.

When they did take out over 1400 health workers in Moreton Bay in the Brisbane North area, over 700 nurses as we've heard our Premier tell us. 

I mean this fellow, ‘Big Trev’ even went so far as to try and sell the local ovals at the schools upon which our kids play.

These though, these cut were not typos that someone else made out when filling in a form - this is his form. 

And it's what the LNP always do: cut the schools, cut the hospitals, look after the top end of town, look after the big money.

There is only one way to stop cuts to hospitals, there is only one way to stop cuts to schools and to TAFE.

It is to vote Labor in the upcoming Longman by-election. 

This is a great gathering on a lovely Sunday morning in a fantastic part of Australia, but I have to say I bring some bad news - Pauline Hanson is not happy with us.

Goodness me, she's not happy.

You see, she doesn’t like us bringing up the times that - all the times that she said penalty rates should be abolished altogether.

She doesn’t like hearing how she's voted with the Liberals to cut $17 billion from schools.

She certainly doesn’t like us calling her out for being an imposter and pretending to be a friend of the battlers, when all she wants to do is get back on the plane to Canberra and vote with the big end of town.

Every day it goes on more and more people are learning the truth about One Nation and their leader.

What she says on Sunrise, she does not do in the Senate.

What she says in Caboolture is not what she does in Canberra.

In fact – and it is a fact – 90 per cent of the time in parliament, One Nation lines up - whatever part of One Nation that is left behind her, lines up and votes with the government.

She is a more reliable LNP voter than half of Mr Turnbull's backbench. 

I had a union delegate once who used to race pigeons and he would have said this. He said that One Nation - they're basically a Liberal Party homing pigeon, they let ‘em out, they flap around in a circle for a bit, but in the end they always come home to the roost.

And this is my message to all those who might be thinking about voting for One Nation, especially the people who’ve voted Labor in the past.

It is a fact that if you vote One Nation, you are voting LNP.

You are not protesting, you are being used to send a vote to the LNP. 

And if you want - and what you will get with that is you will get the cuts to schools and hospitals and TAFE.

You'll end up seeing fewer apprenticeships, harder for working class kids to go to university and the pensioners and the penalty rates will go backwards.

If you want better funding for hospitals and schools, more apprenticeships, more places for working class kids in uni.

If you want to get your penalty rates back and if you want the pensioners to get a fair deal - vote for Susan Lamb and vote Labor next Saturday. 

I said at the outset that we had the better candidate, but we've also got the better policies.

We've got the best plan for education.

We're going to fund schools and the early years education of our children before school - we're going to fund it properly.

We will renovate our TAFE campuses, we will pay the upfront fees for 100,000 apprentices doing TAFE in the next three years.

We are going to invest in universities. 200,000 people will get the chance to go to university in the next ten years, under a Labor government - they just simply won't get under the current LNP Government.

And we do all of this investment in education because, I like you believe funding education, funding our kid's future is better with that $17 billion - better to give that to the education, the teachers, the parents, the kids than to give $17 billion to the big four banks.

A very straight forward choice. 

But it's not just about education, it's about living standards too.

We are going to give a bigger, better, fairer tax cut for 10 million working Australians who earn less than $125,000.

That's good for your living standard, more back in your tax. 

We're going to have a fight with the big Private Health Insurers, we're going to cap their Private Health Insurance fee increase to a maximum of 2 per cent for the first two years of a Labor government.

We have a wages policy which is more than just cutting penalty rates.

What we intend to do is restore the penalty rates of 700,000 Australian workers within the first 100 days of a Labor government - that's what we'll do.

And we are going to crack down on dodgy labour hire companies - not just in Queensland but right across Australia.

If I am Prime Minister I will have a simple rule: you do the same job, you get the same pay. Same job - same pay.

We can afford to make these promises because we're not giving $17 billion away to big banks.

And Labor is going to help with your power bills too.

In this Government’s last budget, they cut the Energy Supplement.

Now that’s an extra $14 for a single pensioner - that's $365 a year and what that is going to mean for a married couple pensioner, is $21 being cut from the energy supplement, $550 a year. 

This is not a king’s ransom, Labor doesn't expect a pat on the back for doing the right thing but we will do the right thing.

The LNP are now saying that they cannot find enough money in the budget to provide an Energy Supplement for 395,000 pensioners. 

Do you know why they can't find money for an energy supplement for pensioners, hundreds of thousands of our fellow Australians?

Because they are giving it all to the big banks in $17 billion. 

And it's because of Susan Lamb's particular and passionate and effective advocacy - of local delivery and of knowing what a local needs. 

I’m proud to say that Labor is offering the best suite of local policies for voters in Longman.

And we can afford to make these promises because we are not giving $17 billion to the big banks.

So when you look at it, when you look at what we're proposing, Susan is putting the pensioners as more important than the bankers. 

That is why, and I congratulate her policy for pensioners, for veterans, for parents who shouldn't have to spend hours on the phone to Centrelink because we don't think that if you get a government pension you should be treated as second class.

What we are going to do is bring new Medicare and Department of Human Services workers into Longman - an extra 50 people to treat the thousands of pensioners with respect that is long overdue in the northern suburbs of Brisbane.

Now friends, the current Prime Minister was on the radio the other day and he said that the by-election was about him versus me.

And maybe in his mind that's what it is.

That maybe that contest makes all of these other problems just go away magically.

I mean on his flying visit here yesterday he said "Bill Shorten" 11 times - whatever floats your boat.

But he didn’t mention the word ‘schools’ once.

Couldn't get his tongue around the 'hospital' word once. 

I'm different, I don’t actually think this by-election is about him or me.

I say this to the voters of Longman - it's not about Malcolm Turnbull or Bill Shorten, it’s about you.

It's about your families, it's about your health care.

That's what motivates Susan Lamb and Labor.

When you boil it all down, when you get rid of the gossip, the trivia, the commentary. 

What really matters in my experience, what Chloe - what matters most to Chloe and I is our family and our health. 

And you don't need to have a PHD in political science, you don't have to be the Government or the Opposition.

What really matters - and we over complicate it in Australian politics, is how is your family going and how is your health going. 

And if your family is okay and if your health is okay or either of them are not you can get help when you need it, that is what really matters. 

So what Labor is offering the voters of Longman, it's all about your health and it's all about your family: 

What motivates Susan, what motivates me, what motivates our whole team, what motivates Premier Palaszczuk, is we just want to make sure that your kids school gets proper funding.

So if they are falling behind they can get that extra help, if someone is picking on them there's some resources in the school to keep your child safe.

If your child just loves mathematics or loves music or loves sport, they can get that extra support so they can fulfil how good they really are if given that chance. 

What matters to us is if your kid can get an apprenticeship, what matters to us is if your kid wants to go to university they can go to university.

They can go to university in the northern suburbs of Brisbane, not so far away from home as they currently do.

What matters to us is better roads and public transport, what matters to us is about the proper NBN for small businesses - not a copper cop-out.  

What matters to us is that you've got a job where it's not putting you below the poverty line, you can actually pay the bills, you can take the family out on a Sunday for a treat and a bite of breakfast and a bit of fun. 

What matters to us is that you've got enough that you don't have to delay going to see the doctor or spreading a prescription beyond the authorised time because you don't have enough money to pay the energy bills and to pay for the medical prescription at the same time. 



And what matters to us is not if you're the king of the castle or you're the CEO of a big bank or you live on the eastern suburbs of Sydney with a view of the water.

What matters to us is that when it comes time to pay the bills, you can.

What matters to us if you're a pensioner, is you're not made to wait on the telephone for three hours to get a legitimate entitlement which you've paid taxes for forty years and you should be able to get.

And most importantly though, it is about your health along with your family. 

If you vote for Susan you will see a new MRI machine for the Moreton Bay region.

If you vote for Susan we will see a new $10 million Chemotherapy treatment at the Caboolture Hospital, rather than taking longer trips elsewhere.

What matters to us is an urgent care clinic on Bribie Island so for the thousands of people who currently have to spend half an hour in an ambulance going to the Emergency Department at Caboolture, you can get the urgent, non-life threatening treatment right where you live.

This is what matters to us. 

And what matters to us is what we read on the trucks of truth going around this electorate - we will make sure that we put back the $2.9 million cut from Caboolture Hospital.

Do you know why we say these things, because your heath and your family are what matter to us. 

That's what gets a passionate advocate like Susan out of bed in the morning and makes her work as long and as hard as she does. 

Because she's really interested in the whole community, not just those who are already doing very well off. 

So next Saturday, July 28th - you get to exercise your democratic choice.

You get to exercise your voice, you get to have your vote. 

And I would put to you, the choice is crystal clear.

If you vote LNP or One Nation you get the same outcome, which is tax cuts for big banks, tax cuts for the very well off and $10 a week for everyone else.

But if you vote for Susan Lamb and Labor you’ll be voting for Tullawong State School or St Peter’s Primary School.

You’ll be voting for Caboolture TAFE or Sunshine Coast University.



You’ll be voting for restoring penalty rates, helping pensioners with their lower power bills.



You’ll be voting for fair pay and a wages policy and better wages.

You’ll be voting to save the ABC even. 

And most of all you’ll be voting to help properly fund Caboolture Hospital - not to give $17 billion to the big banks.

But at a deeper lever when you strip away all of the sort of - the show business and the razamataz of politics. 

You'll be voting to put the community back into the community.

You'll be voting to put Aussie battlers back into the decision making in Canberra.

And it's about the sort of person you want fighting for you in Canberra.

So I want to promise tonight that after the election, my first official meeting will be with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders from across Australia to talk Constitutional Recognition, to talk about Closing the Gap and to talk Treaty.

Friends and representatives of the working people of Australia here tonight.

Did you know that tomorrow, July 18th, would be Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday?

Nelson Mandela is a hero for the labour movement, here and right around the world.

But did you know that he was first imprisoned for supporting strike action?

It’s to the eternal credit of the Australian Trade Union movement that our predecessors were calling for an end to Apartheid while the Conservatives were still calling Mandela a terrorist. 

But I begin with Mandela because not simply for the fact that his 100th birthday would have been tomorrow but because he was a champion for the rights of all people - not just even the rights of man, but of all people. 

And tonight, as I come here - this gathering of the ACTU Congress, at this gathering of the representatives of working people, I want to put to you tonight that Mandela embodied the spirit and the purpose of representation.

Did you know that in 1985 - 23 years after he was first imprisoned – the then South African Government offered him a ‘conditional release’.

They said he could walk free if he renounced the African National Congress and their methods.  

Mandela turned them down. 

And he wrote to the Congress, explaining why. He said and I quote:

“I cherish my own freedom dearly, but I care even more for your freedom. 

I am in prison as the representative of the people, and of your organisation, the African National Congress, which was banned. 

And what freedom am I being offered while the organisation of the people remains banned?”

Friends, as we gather here - as you gather here as representatives of working people - to me, that most amazing response from Mandela when offered personal freedom - he articulated what I believe is the essence of representation. 

And indeed, it is the common strand which links representation and progress from that man at that time right through to this time, right now.

It is that marvellous understanding that Mandela had - that it’s never about you, it’s not about the individual, it’s about the people you stand for and the cause you fight for. 

It is what I think is the magic and the special quality of this congress - It is what is about the importance of this great, democratic Congress.

I’m sure no-one here minds that I say that none of us even stands in the shadow of the great Nelson Mandela. 

But all delegates here, are inextricably linked because you are representatives. 

Representatives of working people and their families.

You are not here for yourselves or your own ambitions. 

You are here to represent the dreams, the aspirations, the experiences, the rights of the working people.

The rights of working people and their families - this is what you represent. 

My attendance here tonight is out of respect for the fact that you are representatives of working people in this country and their families.

It is indeed all of our responsibility - my parliamentary colleagues who are here in too greater number to list - but it is also, dare I say it, it’s our privilege. 

The greatest education in my life was not my schooling or university.

The greatest education in my life has come from being a unionist representing working people. 

And I know I am not alone in saying that - from Bill Kelty to Greg Combet, to all of the leaders here; to Dave Oliver and now to Sally McManus - I think all would say the same. 

The greatest education we have is to represent working people.

And every time my colleagues who are here - including and thank you for lending her to us, Ged Kearney -  every time we listen in the Parliament to lectures from the Conservatives about their background as investment bankers, as young Liberals, that somehow that is superior to our experience in the service of working people. 

They mock us because our parents had the temerity to send us to university - to not know our place.

They mock us because we insist on having equal representation in our Parliament with women as well as men.

They mock us because we do not forget where we come from.

But rest assured, we know the truth. 

We know that being a union representative teaches us lessons you cannot ever acquire in many other walks of life.

It teaches us about the real joys, the real losses.

It teaches us about real things.

It teaches us not only how the economy is structured and how things are made and delivered, and how services are provided.

It teaches us about people’s lives. 

It teaches us about people's dreams.

The pressures though that families can face, it teaches us that there are actual human consequences from those bloodless economist, corporate terms like ‘downsizing’, 'redundancy', 'contracting out' and 'offshoring'.

You learn about how our fellow Australians cope not only in the very best of times but in the very worst of times, the serious injuries, the industrial diseases, the deaths at work. 

You see the determination of everyday Australians fighting for what’s right.

You meet people like Dane Coleman and Troy Carter who’ve been locked out and on the picket at Esso for over a year. 

Being a representative of working people teaches you ability, modesty and respect for the courage and effort of our fellow working Australians - I wouldn’t trade any of that for Goldman Sachs or for a harbourside mansion or for pats on the back from the conservative anti-union media of this country. 

There’s another thing you learn as a representative of workers. 

You learn nothing has ever been given in the fashion of progress without it being fought for.

The minimum wage
Universal superannuation
Sick leave, holiday pay
Domestic violence leave
Medicare
Penalty rates
Paid parental leave
These weren’t gifts. 

They weren’t a present from an employer who woke up on a sunny morning in a generous mood. 

It was Australian unions who argued and organised and fought for them. 

Unions who turned radical ideas into universal rights. 

Not just for your members – but for every working Australian. 

It is the understanding that all of these things which we take for granted in Australian society, unions were integral in the creation and are integral in the sustenance of in the Australian way of life. 

So what I wanted and start tonight to say, acknowledging that you are representatives of other people's dreams is that you are also part of a great tradition.

And I use the word we - we believe in
a safe workplace  fair pay  good jobs  decent conditions
Not just for some of us, but for all of us. 

Friends,

I’m very grateful for what the working people of this country have taught me.

I am fortunate to call you so many of you my friends and my colleagues.

But I’m not here tonight simply out of respect, or out of nostalgia or sentiment. 

I’m here because of the future that I want us to build together. 

Because it’s as simple as this my friends: if you want to change the rules, you first start by changing the Government. 

You know, so much of what this current government says and does is meaningless.

You know that when they talk about health, or education, it’s because they feel they need an alibi, they need to tick the box, they need to pretend that they care.

But the fact is that there are only, really, two things that the current government do care about, that make them excited and passionate.

There are two things which fire them up.

One is attacking the Labor party and vilifying unions for standing up for working people.

And I think it’s still early enough in the night for a bit of mathematics here.  

Question Time, if you’re trapped somewhere and you have to watch it, or you’re in parliament, it goes for about 70 minutes.

Questions are about 30 seconds long, answers are for three minutes.

The Opposition normally gets to ask about 10 questions, so that’s five minutes for Labor, 65 minutes for them.

Sixty-five minutes a day, four times in a week.

So, that’s about 260 minutes of Liberal and National MPs talking.

In the last week of Question Time – at the end of June – can you guess how many times this meaningless government spoke about unions, Labor and me?

418 times!

418 times, in 260 minutes.

They literally cannot go one minute without talking about us! Get a life.

But there is one other thing they get very excited about: they love giving tax cuts to multi-millionaires, to multinationals and the big banks, my goodness that fires them up.

But that’s really it.

They attack Labor, they attack unions to suppress the wages, to undermine the conditions of working people.

And then they cut the services that people really rely upon, the essential services people rely upon, so they can find the room in the budget to give it to their mates at the top end of town.

And whenever we dare to question why they are cutting monies from early years education, from schools, from universities, from TAFE, from pensioners, from the ABC – and they want to give it to the big four banks and multinationals.

The only argument this meaningless conservative government can offer us is:

“Oh well, President Trump has done it, so we should too.”

They are hell-bent on taking Australia down the American road.

Now don’t get me wrong, there’s a lot to admire about America.

But I do not want an American-style health system for this country, where when you get sick, you go broke.

I do not want the $100,000 American university education system, excluding working-class kids from higher education.

And I do not want an American-style wages system where adults work for $8 an hour.

I do not want us to be a nation where adults and working people have to work two and three and four jobs, just to make ends meet, just to be above the poverty line.

I do not want creeping casualization and insecure work, the so-called ‘gig economy’ which means people and their labour are treated as mere commodities.  

And I do not want, in this country, people trapped on a treadmill of low wages, of uncertain hours, where you find out your next day’s shift at work by text the night before, where the protections are stripped away and there is no-one to speak up for these people.  

In our labour movement, in the Labor Party, we seek a different future for Australia.  

A future built on the labour movement’s founding promise: a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work.  

So tonight, I want to tell you briefly of the some of the things a Labor Government will do.

One, in our first 100 days, we’re going to reverse the arbitrary cut to Sunday penalty rates for 700,000 workers.

And we’re going to legislate so penalty rates can never be arbitrarily reduced again.

And two, we’re going to reform the Fair Work Act, so we can put the bargain back into enterprise bargaining.

And we will end the use of sham agreements in other parts of the nation to do to workers what is being done to the Esso maintenance contractors.

And when we talk about fair pay, that means equal pay for the women of Australia.

And when I say equal pay, I don’t just mean equal pay for doing the same work, I mean equal pay for work of equal value, so feminised occupations get the same deal.  

We cannot simply leave equal pay to the invisible hand and the free market.

117 years on, we cannot simply wait until our great, great, great granddaughters see equal pay on the current trajectory in another 150 years. We will make equal pay an economic plan for this country.

And, as we have always said, we are not going to subject construction workers to two sets of laws, we will scrap the ABCC and reform the building code.

We will tackle sham contracting and dodgy ‘phoenixing’.

We will not allow $2 companies to run and hide and go into liquidation when they owe their workers compensation.

We will make every director in this country have a director’s number so if they rip off workers once, they don’t get that second chance.

We will call time on the exploitation of so-called ‘permanent casuals’.

There is no such thing, in a future Labor government, as a permanent casual. Once you’ve been in that job for a period of time, you are a permanent worker.

And in the same vein we will look at new action to stop the spread of the overuse of fixed-term contracts.

Not fixed-term contracts for three or four years, fixed-term contracts for our young teachers and staff in white-collar professions and other jobs where, month by month, they get their fixed-term contract rolled over with no rights for the employee.

We will lead a national crack-down on dodgy labour hire companies and the dodgy use and abuse of labour hire casuals.

We get, I’ve worked in a lot of workplaces, I understand there is a role for labour hire.

But what there is not a role for is using labour hire casuals with the same skill and experience to work in the same job as direct employees, at lower rates of pay.

We are going to legislate a long-overdue principle in Australian employment law: same job, same pay.

This spread of labour hire is a most serious challenge for our labour relations and the way people are treated in this country.

When you talk to some of the older men and women working on the civil construction sites, on the stop-go signs in their 60s.

And they’re a labour hire contractor paid less than other people working on the same construction site.

And they look at you, you can see in their eyes, they know have to work, they don’t have enough superannuation, but they do not understand what has happened to the Australian promise.

How is it, they say to me, that in our 60s we are on less pay and less job security and worse conditions than we were in our 40s?

We need to make sure that when it comes to labour hire across Australia’s worksites, it’s a very straightforward principle: if you do the same job, you get the same pay. That’s what we’ll do.

So tonight, and I know there’s plenty to do and plenty to catch-up on, what I wanted to do was tell you some of Labor’s workplace relations policies.

Some of our propositions to honour the labour movement’s oldest promise of a fair day’s wage for a fair day’s work.

I’ve made it clear tonight what we will do.

Sure, I’ll call them promises. But what we will do is a plan for action. And we will work with you and good employers to make sure this plan for action comes to fruition.

But I also want to conclude by saying this to you all.

I do not come here tonight automatically expecting your vote.

I do not come here tonight thinking that somehow the Labor party is owed the support of the union movement.

But I do come here tonight expecting your judgement.

Representation comes with the responsibility of judgement.

You are the representatives of working people in this country, Labor seeks to govern for all people in this country.

What I seek tonight is your judgement.

There are plenty of people who will vie for your vote.

But when you have a look, from One Nation to the Liberal Party to the other parties – what will they actually do?  

It is your judgement I seek. And it is your judgement on these following questions that I seek you to exercise as representatives.

It is for you and the members you represent, whose interests you hold dear to answer:

Who is the best party to make sure that bargaining and wage rises start happening again?

Who is the best party to champion equal pay?

Who is the best party to fight for secure work?

Who is the best party to lift the wages of working Australians?

And I would submit to you that it is the Labor party who is the best party to champion these issues.

It is only Labor who seeks to govern for all, in the interests of all.

It is only Labor who seeks to put the unions, not in charge, but treated with respect in the decision-making forums of the nation.

It is only Labor, when we seek to govern for all, who invest in education from the early years through the school system to TAFE and university. 

It is Labor who wants to properly fund our hospitals, for all Australians.

It’s Labor who wants to restore apprenticeships, for all Australians.

It is Labor who wants to protect superannuation, for all Australians.

It is Labor who wants to boost wages, for all Australians.

It is Labor who wants to take real action on climate change, for all Australians.

It is Labor who wants to champion the cause of an Australian head of state, for all Australians.

It is Labor who wants to close the gap with our first Australians, for all Australians.

I do say this to you tonight: we will be a Labor government where the union movement always has its rightful and respected place as the advocate and champion of working people because that serves all Australians too.  

You know, the other fellow, the current Prime Minister.

I think for him, being Prime Minister has always just been a game, an exercise in service of his own ambition.

I understand because of the representative nature of what we are going to do, I understand because of the lessons that working people have taught me my whole life, I understand that it is not about me, or my colleagues.

We know, in fact, that it’s not about any of us in this room.

It is about values, it is about ideas, it is about the Australian people – all of them.

And it is about honouring the oldest promise of the Australian nation: a fair go, all round.

What a great day for a campaign. 



What a great crowd to help support the next member for Perth, Patrick Gorman. 

Patrick Gorman helped elect a Labor Government in Western Australia - and now we can help elect Patrick Gorman and in the process start electing a Labor Government in Canberra. 



It's great to be here with so many candidates who are flying the Labor flag for us at the next federal election but today is a very important day for Pat. 



This is the launch of his campaign, although he has been working very hard for the last number of weeks. 



It's great to have him here with Jess, and of course Leo - the first of many campaign launches for his father, Patrick. 

Pat, as you know is West Australian born and bred.

He's Labor through and through.



And this by-election is a very important by-election for Western Australia - not just for Labor.



Because what we doing in this by-election is we are showing respect for the people of Western Australia. 



I think it says a lot about the respect which we hold the people of Western Australia that we are running such quality candidates both here and in Fremantle - and indeed right across the state of Western Australia. 



But it also shows what a lack of respect that the Liberal Party have for Western Australia that they're not running any candidates in any of these by-elections. 



Shame on them.



We don't take by-elections or any states or any contest for granted. 

We work our very hardest and that's what people have been doing for the last number of weeks here in the seat of Perth. 

But what we also understand in Labor is that we can't do the very good things that we want to do nationally unless we do well in Western Australia. 



I have no doubt that in the big general election, all eyes will be on Western Australia.



I think it will be a case for the first time in many years that at the general election, where goes Western Australia will go the nation.

And that means that Labor has to have the best possible policy offerings for the people of Western Australia. 



Patrick and the other candidates who are running both now and the general election, have been developing an outstanding set of policies for Canberra, for Labor nationally, to help work with the McGowan Government in Western Australia. 



We do have a plan for higher living standards. 



We do have a plan for local jobs. 



We do have a plan to restore our health care system and reverse the cuts to hospitals.



And we do have a plan for the education of our young ones. 



We have a plan for better infrastructure. 



We have a plan to ensure that we have greater equality and that we close the gap between those who are doing without and those already doing very well. 



But what we also have is that we have a plan for the GST. 



We have a plan which Labor has led, working with the McGowan Government and Labor nationally, to establish a floor. 



And what we say today is that not only do we support there being a 75 cent floor, we want to turn the floor into law. 



We want to legislate for that promise.

And Patrick, when he's out on the doors can establish why we can make this promise -



We can pay for our promises for a fair go for Western Australia because we are not giving $17 billion away to the big banks. 



We choose Western Australians, we don't choose the top end of town. 



And although the Liberal Government in Canberra believes that by not running candidates in these by-elections, they can ignore the views of Western Australians - we're not going to let them ignore Western Australia. 



The current Federal Government only has one plan: they plan to give away $80 billion in corporate tax relief to the top end of town.



That is a foreign aid plan for foreign multinationals. 



Instead, we want to put the resources back into Western Australia.



But there is a deeper issue, and you know this by-election is such an important part of this deeper issue -there is a choice in front of the Australian people about what sort of country that we're going to become.

Do we go down the path of Trump-style corporate tax cuts for the big end of town or do we actually fight for essential services, for jobs, for health and for schools?



These are the choices which Australians are faced with very starkly.



There's a lot to admire about the United States but one thing we don't want is we don't want an American-style wages system where adults work for $8 an hour. 



What we don't want is an American-style health care system where if you get sick, it means you go broke. 



And what we don't want to be is an American-style education system where the cost of going to university is so high that too many working class kids are simply excluded from the possibility and the opportunity of higher education. 



These are the choices.



We are going to make a choice in this by-election - and in fact, a choice at the next general election - about what sort of country we become.



Are we going to become a country who says that the only plan for Australians is that if you look after the top 2 or 3 per cent of earners, if you look after the biggest companies in Australia, that we can just simply cross our fingers and hope that if you look after those already very well off, those already very powerful, that the crumbs from the table of these people, from these corporations will fall off and look after everyday working class and middle class households in this country?



That is the choice and the debate. 



And that is why it's so very important that Patrick gets elected in Perth because the more Labor MPs we send to Canberra, the more we can fight for our more positive vision of Australia. 



Mr Turnbull knows that his tax policies are not popular - that's why he hasn't even bothered to present his candidates for choice in these by-elections because he doesn't want to hear the message.



But what we have to do though is send a resounding message that even for those Liberals that who haven't turned up to this election, we give them something to remember after July 28.



And we can do it by putting forward our positive alternatives.

And you know the story, and it is a story worth repeating every day between now and the upcoming by-election. 



You know that when you vote for Labor you vote for stronger Medicare. 

You know that when you vote Labor you vote for the chance for your kids to get an apprenticeship - that we will put an extra 100,000 apprenticeship upfront fees, Labor governments will pay for them.

You know that when you vote Labor, we will be able to put in 200,000 university places. 



You know that when you vote Labor, you'll see real action on climate change and put renewable energy at the centre of our energy policy to push lower prices.

You know that when you vote Labor, what you'll get is you'll get a better quality NBN.



You know that when you vote Labor, what we will see is genuine wages movement in this country again rather than the stagnation that we are currently presented and living with under this Government.



You know that when you vote Labor, we will see penalty rates restored for over 700,000 working Australians.

You know that when you vote Labor, you get fair dinkum tax relief. For 10 million working Australians, we offer a better income tax refund than the current Government are doing. We won't just be fobbing people off with $10 a week whilst the top end gets $7,000 a year because we are the party who look after middle and working class families in this country. 



Now, my opposite number says that when we talk about doing these things, it is class war, it is envy on aspiration - it's not



What we understand in this hall, what Patrick Gorman understands in every part of his DNA -



What our movement understands right across this country is we believe in aspiration.

We don't believe that aspiration is defined by the size of the negative gearing portfolio or the amount of money you invest in the Cayman Islands or the size of your mansion where you live. 



We actually think that aspiration is a more fundamental proposition.



We believe in the oldest and most sustainable Australian aspiration: the aspiration of the fair go.

We believe, Patrick Gorman believes - all of us here believe - we believe in the aspiration that if you work hard, you should get paid fairly. 



We believe in the aspiration that men and women should be treated equally in this country.

We believe the aspiration of making sure that our cities have proper public transport.

We believe in the aspiration of apprenticeships, of making sure that pensioners have got enough to live on. 

We believe in the aspiration of not handing on to our kids a worse environment and a worse climate than the one we have inherited.

We believe that the aspiration of the fair go all around.

It’s not often that you come to a harness racing track and you can be guaranteed that you're backing a winner.

But as your applause clearly indicates, you know that we are today.

Justine Keay is the best candidate with the best policies for Braddon and with your hard work, she can be the winner on July the 28th and we look forward to that day.

I'd like to start off by acknowledging the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet and I pay my respects to their elders both past and present.

I'd also like to acknowledge Tanya Plibersek, she is a fantastic Deputy. 

And if I may be excused, at a gathering of the Labor Party, the first one I've attended since Friday, I'd like to  acknowledge Jenny Macklin stepping down after 22 years, she’s a real Labor legend.

I acknowledge my Tasmanian Labor colleagues who are here, federal and state, and I'd like to acknowledge your very great state Labor leader here, Bec White, lovely to see you.

And even though she used to come down here to Devonport on work, could you please give a warm Tassie Labor welcome to my special and amazing wife Chloe.

But I'd like to conclude my acknowledgments by acknowledging a group of people who can’t be here today. And you know them, we see them every day they are the people stacking shelves, cleaning hotel rooms, serving customers in shops, making the coffees.

These are Australians who are giving up their Sunday so that they can give more to their families. And on behalf of the Labor Party I just want to say thank you.

In Labor we respect the work that workers do.We are grateful for the work that workers do. And that is why within our first 100 days of being elected to the national government, we will restore your Sunday and public holiday penalty rates, thank you.

Friends

This by-election has put a spotlight on the electorate of Braddon and the people who live here. And it’s illuminated issues that people raise with me when I do my town hall meetings from Burnie to Smithton, to Queenie right through to Latrobe.

There’s no doubting that this is a lovely and beautiful part of the world. As you know it's such a beautiful place, many tourists come here to visit.

But the people who live in Braddon, they're not the tourists, you’re not just passing through or camping out, this is your home.

And you shouldn’t have to leave your home, in order to find a job that pays a fair wage on the mainland.

And you shouldn’t have to fly to the mainland when your child is diagnosed with a serious illness to get the sort of health care that other people take for granted.

And your young ones shouldn’t have to pack up their bags, to change in order to fulfil their lives with a TAFE or a university course, to learn a trade.They shouldn't have to leave their home in Tasmania to travel elsewhere.

Living here should not mean missing out on the essential services which Australians take for granted in many other parts of Australia.

We believe in Labor that your lives here deserve equal opportunity, your community deserves equal opportunity.

That’s what Justine’s campaign is about when all is said and done, that's what Labor’s policies and what our values are all about. 

It's about your family, it's about your health, it's about your community.

Now, I notice that the Prime Minister, yet again, yesterday engaged in one of his personal tirades against me.

He spends a lot of time throwing personal insults and invective against me. I mean if he really wants my job as Opposition Leader, he can have it. 

But more seriously, my response to him is simple: Australians are sick of this sort of politics. 

Let me be very clear, I'm not going to play that game.

If he wants to play the personal insult game - he can. But he’ll be doing it on his own.

What I intend to do is concentrate on the things which make Australia better.

To come up with policies and proposals that makes lives better for everyday Australians.

And if the other fellow wants a little bit of free advice from me, he should just do the same. Focus on the people, not the politics. 

And this is what we're focused on right here in Braddon.

The Liberals have cut $14.7 million from schools in Braddon, we’re going to put that money back.

Because we believe that every child, no matter their circumstances or their postcode, deserves an excellent opportunity for a quality education.

And we can do this because we’re not going to give $17 billion to the big banks.

The Liberals have cut $11 million from hospitals in Tasmania, we’re going to put the money back.

And we can do this because we’re not going to give $17 billion to the big banks.

And we’re going to invest $30 million to reduce waiting lists for elective surgery, for those painful procedures, the knee replacements, for the hip operations, to have the cataracts removed.

Currently, the waiting times for these procedures in Tasmania are some of the worst in the country and this is not the fault of the dedicated health workers, far from it, it’s the fault of the poor priorities of Liberal governments.

And we can make these promises to restore the funding to the schools, to restore the funding to hospitals, to restore the funding to reduce waiting lists for elective surgery, because we’re not going to give $17 billion to the big banks.

And when I talk about health care, like Justine, when we talk about heath care, we mean better services for mental health, particularly for young people.

Being a teenager has never been easy. But in this age of social media, of online bullying, when there’s more pressure, all the time, the pressure is relentless. When technology means that we’re more connected but for some of our young ones, more vulnerable and more isolated than ever before.

It's hard to reach out for support, to put up your hand and to say that you’re struggling. That is when you need help and if the services are not there that is when trouble and worse can occur to you.

This is why I am pleased  - and it's in big part due to Justine's advocacy - that a Labor Government will build a new Headspace service to provide mental health services in north west, to be based in Burnie, and we'll do that if we get elected and if we vote for Justine. 

Friends

A vote for Justine isn't just a vote for better health services, tangible health services on the ground.

It's a vote to back local jobs, to back local business, to back local workers.

Unlike the current Prime Minister, we will not patronise age care workers in Burnie and teachers and tradies and nurses right across north western Tasmania by telling them that if they want to get a better tax cut they should just ‘get a better job’. 

Instead, as Tanya said, we’re going to reward these hard-working Tasmanians with a bigger, better, fairer tax cut for people in the existing jobs they are in.

Our plan is to look after working people and to make the tax system work for working people. We'll give a fair-dinkum tax refund to working Tasmanians which doesn't require them going to get a ‘better job’.

We like the jobs that people are doing right now - and we're going to back you in your current job. 

We will not only lift living standards by providing better tax refunds for all Tasmanians who earn up to $125,000 a year. 

We've got plans to put downward pressure on the cost of energy and plans to put downward pressure on the cost of health care.

But we also believe that the single best way to lift the living standards of working Tasmanians is to actually have a system to lift the wages of working Tasmanians.

Let's just say it as it is: the only wages policy the Turnbull government has is to attack trade unions. 

The only wages policy this government has is to give a better deal for the ASX CEOs. 

Did you know that in the last number of years the average multiplier of a CEOs wage of the ordinary wage of Australians has gone from 20 times to 60 times? 

This is a government who has got a plan to cut your penalty rates and a plan to criticise unions, they just have no idea how to deal with the cursed problem of wage stagnation. 

So we will put forward wages policies that see women paid better in the workforce, that restore the penalty rates, that give people the ability to bargain properly and to tackle the scourge of labour hire which is reducing people’s conditions.

You can't talk about standing up for working Tasmanians unless you talk about a wages policy and Justine is the only candidate in this competition with a wages policy. 

Justine is also very focused on the needs of small business in the Braddon area, she's going to propose if she's elected that we will have a policy of 6,600 businesses in Braddon receiving support from our Australian Investment Guarantee.

So if some of the companies that we visited, be it Specialised Vehicle Solutions in Burnie or Britton Brothers timber operations in Smithton - if they invest in new plant and equipment, if they invest in new machinery that will generate profitability, productivity and a better deal for their workforce, then they will be immediately able to deduct an extra 20 percent off the price of their investment. 

So when local businesses invest more than $20,000 in their own expansion of productivity, their going to pay less tax under Labor.

We are the party who will look after working people and their employers in the electorate of Braddon. And our plan will mean that at the next election businesses in Braddon will pay less or the same tax under us, whether or not the liberals were there or not. That's our plan for small business in this area. 

But our commitment to jobs in this region doesn't just stop at better tax policies, it's also about backing new industries as well, like tourism.

Labor will put the $8.8 million into the Coastal Path that stretches all the way from Latrobe right through to Wynyard and beyond.

And we're going to put that extra $8.8 million in to complete that path because we want to see the businesses in this region benefit from the tourism expansion which this region surely deserves. 

It will generate, this single proposal, $17 million in the local economy each year and it will generate nearly 100 extra jobs.

We will back industries that create jobs, that's why we're backing renewable energy.

While the Liberals and Nationals still engage in the tiresome fight about whether climate change is real we actually just want to make the north west of Tasmania a Renewable Energy Zone. A centre for new investment, for new jobs and, of course, for new projects.

And because our candidate knows this community so intimately, and because she listens to locals as Labor has, we’ve got plans to improve the local infrastructure:

-       Upgrading the Bass Highway between Wynyard and Circular Head
-       Building levees for better protection against the floods in Latrobe
-       Fixing up those most annoying and aggravating mobile phone blackspots
-       Upgrading the track at the local BMX club at Wynyard.
-       Putting in new changerooms for West Park Oval in Burnie.

And when we invest in these local projects, we’re going to make sure that it’s local content that gets used.

When you vote for Labor what we will require is that when they expend any Commonwealth taxpayer money we want to see local content. We don't want contractors coming from the mainland to do this work, we want to give it to local businesses and local tradies and local employers because that's who we are.

And we're also going to require that one in every 10 people working on these projects has to be an apprentice, because we are the party of apprenticeships. 

You know yesterday there would have been some of you and many other Tasmanians who were engaged in your local football clubs.

Filling up water bottles, running the boundary, doing the goal umpiring. Arguing with unhappy parents whose point you didn't acknowledge. And there'd be those of you who were just working in the canteen, making sure that the junior teams can have something to eat after they play their local footy. 

I get, and Justine gets, that the grassroots is what makes communities. 

And so that's why we were pleased to annouce on Thursday that Labor would create for the first time in Tasmania a new $5 million ‘Save Our Footy Fund’, to back local clubs, to back in the grassroots footy of Tassie.

We understand that Tasmania was a foundation Australian rules state and it has been neglected by football administrators on the mainland for too long. 

We understand it's a complex problem, what we need to do is restore grassroots football. 

We think that we've got a plan to do that, to be able to help encourage more junior teams, to encourage the grassroots and better infrastructure.

And from that we've also said yesterday that we are prepared to work with the AFL to make sure that there is some Commonwealth support that when there is a future license granted that Tasmania is at the front of the queue to finally be a foundation footy state with its own footy team, that's what we'll do. 

But we understand for the people who live here, that quality of life is also about better services.

There's a story which Justine helped inform me about, it's about a lady called Marsha Ferris from Boat Harbour. Boat Harbour is a beautiful part of the country. 

She turned 65 in 2016, she applied for her age pension in December of that year, as is her right.

For six months, to and fro with Centrelink, re-submitting the same forms, answering the same questions.It wasn’t until Justine Keay stepped in and intervened that Marsha was able to get her pension.

The problem is you hear these stories all Tasmania and all over Australia.

People are enduring long and frustrating waits for their legitimate pension payments and Medicare rebates and job-seeker services.

They’re waiting hours each week, each month, just to get someone to pick up the phone. 

And when Justine and Linda Burney, our spokesperson who has made the special trip down here to support what I'm about to announce, when we bring up this issue how does the current Liberal government respond? 

They do what they always do, first of all they pretend there’s not a problem, then they make it worse.

Last year, they sacked 1,180 staff from the Department of Human Services. 55 million calls went unanswered. 55 million calls.

The average waiting times this year for pensioners, for students, for jobseekers have all increased – again.

Imagine, imagine if a Liberal Minister, or one of their big business friends had to go through this process.

The talkback radio on certain channels would be going bananas, there’d be letters in The Financial Review, they’d probably have a Royal Commission into the problem.

But in this year’s budget, the government outsourced another 1,250 jobs to contractors.

This is the Liberal government business model for essential services for Tasmanians and all Australians. They want to sack full-time staff, they want to replace them with labour hire contractors, on lower pay and more uncertain rosters.

When will the Liberal Party learn? Privatisation is not the solution, it is the problem.

Now I'm pleased that it won't just be here but all around Australia, we’re going to stand up and do something about this problem but we're going to start right here, right now.

Today, I’m pleased to announce that we will see no more diminution of the essential services which Australians rely on.

We're going to stop treating age pensioners, people receiving legitimate government payments, as second-class. As if they should beg and plead for a bit of charity when this is their right, this is what they paid taxes for their whole life. 

We're not going to see the users of the human services system treated as second-class and we're not going to see the beleaguered frontline staff who work in this department used as the battering ram for the government’s neglect and disinterest.

So I'm pleased to announce that we'll start right here, right now. We're going to deliver an extra 50 Centrelink staff, based here in Devonport and in Burnie to cut waiting times and improve services.

This will be more permanent, more full-time, more in-house jobs. It's going to bring $3.6 million to the local economy each year.

And the new jobs will include a team of staff who travel to the West Coast, who will travel to Circular Head and King Island and all of the small communities so that local people can get essential services and support, face-to-face.

Friends

Today what I've outlined is a plan for the whole north west. 

It's a plan with detail, it's a plan grounded in the experience of everyday life in this marvellous part of Australia.

And it's a positive plan, our plan means more jobs, it means higher wages, it means better schools and hospitals and government services. 

Now what our opponents offering, what is their ‘vision’ for your community?

There’s a $17 billion giveaway for the big four banks

They voted, in the last month, for a $7000 tax cut for themselves .

And they are going to use the cuts to your schools and your hospital and your TAFE and child care and the pensions to pay for that plan.

These are not our values.

We do not believe that ordinary everyday Australians should lose services, should have to pay to look after the top end of town. 

We believe in Australia's oldest promise: the fair go all round.

We believe that policies of government should not just be for some of us, but for all of us.

Whether you are young or you're old, whether you are a man or a woman. Whether you live in the city, the suburbs or the regions.

We believe that regardless of your parents’ wealth, no matter whether your family has been here for a thousand generations, or seven generations or this is the first generation.

We think every Australian has a right to a quality education.

We think every Australian has the right to affordable, decent quality healthcare.

We think every Australian has the right to a fair pay at work.

We think every Australian has the right to dignity in retirement.

We think that every Australian should have equality of opportunity, wherever they live in this country. 

We believe that this country should be run not just for some Australians, but for all Australians. 

Friends

As we approach the last 20 days of this by-election, it's possible for observers and commentators to overcomplicate politics.

When you look past all the noise and all the trivia, the question for all of the voters here at this by-election is dead simple:

How much  money do you want to give the big four banks?

And how much do you want to cut from your children's education, from age care, from the pensioners power supplement, from the schools, how much do you want to cut from your hospitals.

These are the questions.

How much do you want to give the top end of town?

How much do you want to cut from your local communities?

That's it. That is the question.
That’s the choice facing Australians at the next general election and it's the choice facing voters in Braddon on July the 28th.

It is the message that we have 20 days to drive home.

If you really believe that the best you can do for this community, as you drive from town to town, you look at the marvellous views, you stop off and experience the great hospitality, as you go to work every day in Devonport or in Burnie or you go underground in one of the mines or you set out to do some fishing.

If you look around this marvellous place, the question which voters have to ask ourselves is: what do we want for the future?

We understand, most people understand, Labor understands, that what most people want is actually pretty modest.

We understand that when your family is doing well, when they have their health - then you can start lining-up to sort out all the other issues which come after that.

But when I look around this community what I realise is the choice is very straightforward. 

What is the point of giving $17 billion to big banks, when instead we could provide some of that money to our schools.

What is the point in giving shareholders in the northern hemisphere Australian tax cuts, rather than giving schools in the north west of Tasmania, the extra teachers’ aides they deserve? 

You know, I look at who the Liberals have chosen to run as their standard-bearer. He is a former banker, to be fair there is consistency, his boss is a former banker - and they both voted against the Banking Royal Commission on at least six occasions. 

In fact, his boss voted against the Banking Royal Commission on 23 occasions.

So I get that if you want to look after the big end of town, you should vote Liberal.

But if you think that your local community is more worthwhile than your local multinational, then you vote Justine and you vote Labor.

And we are counting on the people in this room and many other Labor volunteers to spread this message 

Every door you knock on, every call you make, house to house, conversation to conversation - we need to make sure people know what is at stake

If you want shorter waiting times at North West Region Hospital, not bigger bonuses for CEOs.

If you want better schools, not richer banks.

If you want better facilities at Devonport TAFE.

If you want better funding for UTAS on the Cradle Coast.

If you want a better NBN for your home and your businesses.

Just vote for Justine and vote Labor.

If you have a teenage child for whom you want an apprenticeship, vote Labor.

If you’re a pensioner and you want to make sure that you get a payment of $14 a fortnight for your energy supplement, vote for Labor.

If you work on Sunday and want your penalty rates lifted, vote for Labor.

In fact, if you just want to save the ABC, vote for Labor.

This is a fantastic community, you know it. The secret is getting out about what a great place it is.

But we can't take our community for granted.

If we just want to be run according to a theory that says that if you look after the top end of town in Sydney and in Melbourne, everything will be better here, well then you should vote for the other guy.

But if we want to actually look after our community and preserve this part of Australia which actually when people look at it reminds them of an Australia which has been lost in far too many other parts around our nation.

This is a special area, but if we want to preserve it and make sure that the kids living here are not disadvantaged.

To make sure that your health outcomes are not disadvantaged. 

To make sure that we're getting our fair share of education and jobs in this region.

That the essential services are properly protected. 

Then I feel that the choice is incredibly clear .

You can elect on July the 28th a seventh generation Tasmania, a local champion, a mother of three.

Someone who is fierce and passionate for progress.

We have in Justine Keay a candidate who gets up every day determined to make a difference for the better, for the wonderful community in which she resides.

Friends

I want to make a confession: I love Labor conferences, I really do. And it’s hard to top the great New South Wales conference.

As we gather here in this grand old building, we are part of the historical heart of progress in Australia.

And you can hear those great speeches, echoing somewhere up there in the eaves. Just think about it; the shoes in which we walk.

It was here in ‘57 that the Australian Workers Union helped launch the campaign for the First Australians to be counted in the census at long last.

Here in this hall, we opposed Apartheid when our political opponents were calling Mandela a terrorist.

It was here that conscription and the war in Vietnam were challenged.

It was here that the unions and Hawke and Kelty formulated wage claims and universal superannuation.

It was here that Whitlam argued, one of the first times, to recognise China.

It was here, from the floor, that Keating called upon us to lead the global debate in eliminating nuclear weapons.

From this stage, from this hall, every Labor generation has looked outwards, to face the big challenges and forge the big decisions.

We here love the Labor cause, we even love these conferences – because, though, we know they are not about us. They are never about us.

These conferences are about our nation, they're about our place in the world. 

This is when Labor can be at its very, very best, when we look outwards to the world.

Not into our souls, not back to the past, not down at our shoes to see if they're shined but outwards to Australia, to the world.

And today we look out at a very uncertain world:

Rising trade conflict.

Growing global debt. 

Stirring US bond rates.  

Humanitarian refugee crises. 

The rise of authoritarian and nativist, right-wing leaders growing around the globe.

A rapidly warming climate.

This is the world we face, and in particular, rising global insecurity - with the wealthiest one per cent grabbing an outsized share of the world’s income.

These are the less certain, less equal times in which our generation has to frame our policies.

At home, too.

Eleven, twelve million Australian workers have endured years of wage stagnation and yet the salary of a typical ASX CEO has grown from 20 times average weekly earnings in 1993, to 60 times average weekly earnings today.

It is a time when massive increases in the price of housing have been matched by massive increases in household debt.

It is a time when our national debt has more than doubled in the last five years, to $21,000 for every man, woman and child.

And a time when casualisation and the ‘gig economy’ are threatening to take us down the road to an American-style industrial system that treats people and the work they do as a commodity.

Our economic growth is too narrow, too reliant solely on exports and resources.

And the benefits of our tax system disproportionately flow to the most well-off.

And while corporate profits as a share of economic life go up and up, the share which goes to the mighty Australian wage and salary earners goes down and down.

This very day, July the 1st, because of the Liberals, Australian families will be worse off than they were as recently as yesterday. 

There are more than a quarter of a million families which will have their child care support cut today, some will lose access to child care altogether.

How on earth, friends, is it sensible or fair that Australian children growing up in families of modest incomes cannot even access child care in this rich and lucky country?

And of course this is on top of the increases to health care costs, triggered by the Liberals’ five-year Medicare freeze.

And there have been the relentless, the never-ending, you can set your clock by them, rises in private health insurance premiums, which this government supinely applauds.

And then there's the power bills that keep going up and up and up while the Liberals and Nationals argue over whether climate change is real.

And, as you all know, it is today that shop assistants and cooks and receptionists will have their penalty rates cut again.

This will leave some of our fellow Australian workers over $3,200 worse off.

Not negotiated in exchange for a better base rate of pay, not compensated with improvements to other conditions.

Just cut again. 

And in response to this uncertainty overseas we see around the world and the stresses on people’s pay packets and the family budget at home, what do the current Liberal government offer in the way of hope?

What is their magnificent plan? 

It is a $17 billion tax giveaway to the big four banks and a $7000 tax cut for themselves.

Friends, that is the extent of conservative imagination in this country.

No wages policy.

No plan to lift living standards.

No protecting Australia in uncertain times.

Just a mates’ rates, Trumpian-style tax plan for the top end of town and cuts to schools and hospitals and wages for everybody else and it is not good enough.

The Liberals believe that an aged care worker on $50,000 should pay the same tax rate as an executive on $200,000. How is that fair?

And when we asked: how was it fair that nurses and carers and teachers and tradies were only getting $10 a week but the Prime Minister and his colleagues were pocketing $7000 a year?

He replied that if the aged care worker wanted a better tax cut, she should ‘get a better job’.

How out of touch can one Prime Minister be?

And this is where the other fellow and I are very different.

My father apprenticed as a fitter-and-turner, he became a seafarer and later he worked on Melbourne's docks. My Mum was a teacher and then a teacher of teachers, the first in her family to go to university.

They raised my twin brother and I to always look people in the eye when you shake their hand and to remember that no-one is better than anybody else. You treat no-one as your inferior and no-one as your superior.

These are my values, these are our values. It is what made me join the Labor Party, it is what drew me to the Australian trade union movement. It is the Australia I believe in.

It is the set of values, the fair go all round, which make this country the best country on earth, so long as we defend the fair go all round.  

And on behalf of this conference, I want to speak to everyone today who is washing dishes, cleaning the hotel rooms, or stacking shelves - all of those copping a cut to their penalty rates.

I say to these up to 700,000 of our fellow Australians, and hundreds of thousands more whose awards are currently contemplating having their penalty rates cut, I say to all of you hard-working Australians, you are just as important to Labor as the banks are to the Government.

I do not think you’re greedy, or selfish. I do not think the pay you earn today is unreasonable. I do not think you are an unreasonable expense that our economy cannot afford. I understand that you are working today because you need the money.

And your penalty rates will always matter to me and Labor just as much as the Prime Minister’s giveaway to the big banks and multinationals matters to him and the Liberal Party, we will fight for them.

In the Labor Party, we know that working on Sunday means giving up quality time with your family, the kids don't get to see you, you don't get to see them.

We get that your work today allows us to enjoy our weekend today.

We believe you should be paid fairly for your time.

That’s why today, I re-dedicate Labor to Australia’s oldest workplace promise: a fair day’s pay, for a fair day’s work.

And it why I am proud to pledge that in the first 100 days of a new Labor Government, we will reverse these cuts to penalty rates and protect take-home pay.

Delegates 

Protecting penalty rates is only one part of our plan to lift the living standards of Australians.

We have a plan.

We’ll cap private health insurance premium increases at 2 per cent for each of the first two years in government, saving the typical family $340.

We will restore the energy supplement for pensioners and for people on Newstart, to provide those who need it an extra bit of help with their bills.

And Labor will deliver a bigger, better and fairer tax cut and refund for 10 million working Australians. If you earn up to $125,000, we’ll provide a tax refund every year, almost double what the Liberals are offering.

And unlike the government, we’re not giving with one hand and taking with the other. We will not pay for our tax cuts by cutting your schools, your hospitals, your TAFE, your child care or your ABC.

Friends

There is a stark difference: the Government are saying that for $10 a week, please, can they give thousands of dollars to the top end of town and millions of dollars back to the big banks.

Our plan is different. We have a plan for the living standards of Australians.

We have a wages policy, we have a fair-dinkum income tax refund, we have a plan to put downward pressure on health costs, we have a plan to put downward pressure on energy prices. 

We have a living standards package for the nation, unlike the current occupants of the government benches.

And in order to have this living standards package, which we can pay for because we've made the serious economic reforms, we know that no living standards package for Australians is credible without a wages policy.

It is well past time to start getting the wages of Australians up and up.

And that means putting the balance back into bargaining, so that our negotiations will be about boosting pay and productivity - not unilaterally terminating agreements, threatening workers with the award and reductions.

And we will crack-down on the abuse of labour hire contracting, so workers are not forced to sacrifice permanent jobs.

We’re going to protect workers in the ‘gig economy’, we are going to start with new action on sham contracting and wages theft because I do not want us to be a nation where people have to do two or three or four different jobs at all hours of the day and night, because none of them pay a living wage. 

Australia is better than this and we will be better than this.

And, friends, in the Labor party when we talk about fair wages, we mean equal pay for the women of Australia.

My youngest daughter is eight. At the current rate of progress on equal pay for women, it will be her granddaughter’s generation which will be the first to grow up in an Australia with equal pay. So we must do better.

So I pledge to this conference that fair pay for working women is a first-order economic priority for a new Labor Government.

And we will achieve these improvements in constructive partnership with employers and alongside the mighty Australian trade union movement.

Every day that the Liberal Party attack me for having been a union rep and try and take the label of unionism and throw it into the ground, I pick up the badge of unionism, I put it back on the Labor Party because I am proud of every day that I have spent representing working people, I am grateful for the lessons that the working people of this country have taught me and I will never forget where I’ve come from.

And no matter what the Liberals say or their ringmasters of vested interest, in this hall we know the truth - the union makes us strong and solidarity is forever.

Now, Chris Bowen and I have made it clear that Labor won’t give the big banks and multinationals billions of dollars to spend on share buy-backs and bigger bonuses for CEOs.
But we will deliver a tax cut which will be the same or better for 99.8 per cent of Australian businesses.

And we’ll create the funds to back advanced manufacturing, to back defence industries, to back the tourism industry and to back renewable energy.

We will get the NBN working better, for business and households alike, in the city and in the bush.

And we will provide an Australian Investment Guarantee, for every local business who invests in new capex, new equipment and new productivity-creating technology, right here in Australia.

But it won't just be our investment in business which marks our new Labor Government, a Labor Government will invest in people too.

We are going to renovate TAFE campuses around the country like we haven't seen. And we're going to waive the upfront fees for 100,000 TAFE courses in our first 3 years of government. So instead of importing workers on skills visas, we will just train our own - as should be the case.

We will create an extra 200,000 university places over the next decade, so more kids from the regions, the suburbs and working-class backgrounds can get the chance to go to university without relying on rich parents.

We’ll reform the two-class tax system, pay down national debt and do budget repair that is fair so that Australia is prepared for whatever this uncertain world can throw at us in the future.

Now, delegates, your federal New South Wales team assembled on this stage, they have run small businesses and they have worked in remote communities.

They’ve taught in schools and TAFE, they’ve worked in health care, they’ve worn the uniform of this country. And in case you hadn’t heard, we’ve also even got a former Premier of New South Wales in our federal team. 

This smart and dedicated, passionate group of people I have the privilege to lead have been doing serious policy work.

We are getting ready. We are treating our time in opposition as preparation for government and meanwhile the government act like they’re in opposition.

They spend all their time talking about us and they’ve got no regard for the future of our country.

Yes, they’re passionate, they are passionate about finding new ways to attack unions.

They’re certainly determined, determined to do a deal with One Nation to give their $17 billion away to the big banks - after the by-elections.

But on everything else, they have a common refrain, they say: bad luck, too hard, give up. 

They say give up on real tax reform.  

They say give up on fair wages and a secure job.  

They say give up on quality well-funded schools and decent hospitals.

They say give up on manufacturing, and they did.

They say give up on local apprentices, and they are.

They say give up on public transport and a proper NBN, and they certainly did.

They even say give up on the First Australians and finding a better environment for the kids.  

They say give up on the Republic and they say give up on winning in Asia.

The Liberal Party say working people just have to wear the consequences of their government’s failures now and young Australians can pay for them in the future.

It is not nearly good enough for our nation, or for our children.

Chloe and I are parents to three great kids, aged between 8 and 17.

And I think we're no different to every parent in this hall and across the nation, we all understand the generational contract.The generational contract which says in our DNA we must hand-on a better set of circumstances to our children than what we inherited from our own parents.

And in the Labor Party, we say this is no time to give up on the fair go. 

No time to abandon the great ongoing national project of our social democracy.

No time to be ill-prepared and indifferent to the uncertainties of a changing world. 

This is exactly the time to build for a fairer and more secure future which includes everybody.

And we will begin that building work right here in New South Wales.

Delegates

You all know Western Sydney is one of the most marvellous and fastest-growing regions in the nation. In just the next 20 years, the population will grow by 1 million people.

We have a serious responsibility to make sure that these communities remain great places to live, work and raise your family.

So governments need to manage population growth by investing in public transport.

Every passenger train we put on the tracks will take another 1000 cars off the road. And that has to start right now, right here.

For too long, the Liberals have drifted on with their ‘studies’ and their self-congratulatory press conferences and taking selfies of themselves in the experiment of catching a train…but it does avoid talking to people.

Pretty soon though, much more seriously, the current headaches with traffic jams and slow commutes could well seem like the good old days if we have more Liberal indifference to public transport.

Now, at the last election, we said that if there was going to be a new airport in Western Sydney, it should be connected to the Sydney rail network on day one.

In 2017, Albo and I announced a commitment of $400 million to get the project underway. 

And today I announce a new Labor Government will invest $3 billion to build the Western Sydney rail link.

It will be delivered in stages:

We’ll extend the South-West rail link from Leppington via Bringelly to the new airport at Badgery’s Creek.

We're going to build a new connection from Macarthur in the south to St Marys in the north, serving the massive job corridor at Sydney Business Park.

And there's more, there will be a new rail line connecting St Marys to Sydney Metro at Rouse Hill.

But as well as maximising the economic spin-offs that will come with the airport, we also want to make it easier for locals to get around Western Sydney.

For a very long time now, my colleagues who call the West home have been telling me that a north-south line won’t do the job by itself.

In the next 20 years, something like 300,000 new jobs will be created in the 25 km space between Parramatta and the CBD, particularly around the Bays Area and Olympic Park.

I'm motivated to do this so that people will get home in time to help with the dinner, to help with the kids' homework. To rediscover a bit of the work-life balance that gets lost if you’re spending hours every week going to and from your job.

So I am very pleased to announce that following up on Luke Foley's most excellent announcement yesterday, a new Federal Labor Government will provide an additional $3 billion to build stage one of the Sydney Metro West, long overdue.

As you clearly appreciate, it will be a new connection between west and east, between Parramatta and the CBD.

This will effectively double the rail capacity on the T1 and it will make room for additional services to Blacktown, Penrith and the Blue Mountains.

Yesterday, as I said, Luke Foley promised that his New South Wales Government would fast-track this project.

And Luke, I can promise you that if I am Prime Minister, my government will do our part, we’ll do it from day one.

We'll make sure that Commonwealth taxes paid by New South Wales people get re-invested to make Metro West a reality. And I can promise we will do much more to ease the congestion for people in outer Western Sydney too.

And because of our Labor values, which we cherish, when we build these new rail lines - not just in Sydney, but across Australia, when we do these sort of projects across the metropolitan centres of Australia and in the regions of Australia, we're going to introduce a new idea back into the Commonwealth: we’re going to use Australian-standard steel and local content.

We are going to reverse the terrible attrition of apprenticeships, where once upon a time before privatisation the big state entities would employ apprentices.

What we will say when we fund new projects, either directly or through partners at the state or local level, we want one in ten of the people working on taxpayer-funded projects to be Aussie apprentices. 

That's what we will offer Australians, we offer higher productivity, we offer faster commutes, we offer a better quality of life and we offer more jobs for Western Sydney.

Now, Delegates, one of the things I enjoy most about my job is that I get to hold town hall meetings all around Australia. 

No one is barred, anyone can enter, they can put up their protest signs or whatever up the back, anyone is welcome. It's not a sort of gilt-edged Liberal party event, anyone can come. I’ve held 75 or more and all are welcome.

But one proposition I hear time and time again is when I meet people who commute to the city from the suburbs, they complain to me that every parking space at their local station is gone well before 7.00 AM.

This is what happens when governments are not accountable to the people, it's called overdevelopment.

Thousands of new homes and apartments but only a handful of car spots at our stations.

The mighty Michelle Rowland shared a story with me from Schofields, where people are parking so far away in the morning they have to get an Uber from their car to the train.

What a terrible way to start your day: rushed, stressed, hoping it doesn’t rain, worried you’ll get a parking ticket or that you'll miss your train.

And then of course you've got the trip home, when you just want to go home at the end of the day, you’ve got to go through those same hassles again but at night time, with poor lighting.

This discourages people from using public transport, it diminishes quality of life, it decreases choices.

So today I am very proud to announce that a new Labor Government will create a $300 million Park and
Ride fund to build multi-storey new car parks and more car spaces in high-growth, high need areas.

We’ll co-operate with councils and state governments and public transport instrumentalities because we want to get these started not in second term or a third term we want to get these started - and ideally built - in our first term.

Now it mightn't sound glamorous to some at the top end of town, about carparks and railway stations - it’s not ‘2.0’ is it? 

But I reckon that when there are practical things that we can do to make people’s lives easier, when we can join the dots of the lives that people live, that is what Labor should do, just get on and do them.

And friends, never forget why we can do these things: big public transport projects, better regional roads, better car parks at railway stations.

The reason why we can invest in infrastructure and depoliticise it is the same reason we can properly fund schools, that we can properly fund our teachers, we can properly fund more money into beds and healthcare workers and MRIs into hospitals.

It's the same reason that we can back public TAFE.

It's the same reason that we can put the money back that the Liberals have cut from the ABC.

We can build the future of Australia because we've made choices, we've chosen to put the people of Australia first, not the top end of town. That's how we win. 

Delegates

My colleagues and I see every day in Question Time, the current Prime Minister taking long rants about how Labor has 'changed' since the 1980s.

Apparently, things are different now to when he was chasing poor old Neville Wran from Macquarie Street to Sussex Street trying to get himself a spot on the Labor Senate ticket.

Mind you, of course, Abbott used to say this stuff too.

It says a lot about the intellectual wasteland that is the modern Liberal Party that they think it is a devastating insult to say that our movement has changed in over 120 years.

Of course we’ve changed. We’ve changed for the better.

Just take a look at these great champions behind me on the stage.

Yep, give them a clap. My team is better than his team, isn’t it? Just have a look.

We get these faux, mocking lectures from the Prime Minister he says ‘Oh you’ve changed, you’ve changed’.

Well, yeah, we have changed.

One hundred years ago, we didn’t have any women in our Caucus.

We are better now because we looked outwards and we have nearly 50 per cent women in our Caucus.

One hundred years ago, we didn’t talk about Reconciliation or the rights of Aboriginal people, or Kevin Rudd’s apology to the Stolen Generations but we have made this a Labor cause and now we have a remarkable and talented Wiradjuri woman, right here in our Shadow Ministry.

One hundred years ago we turned our backs on Asia, we fearfully shut ourselves off from the wider world.

We are better now because this party always looks outwards, we’ve embraced migration, we’ve embraced diversity.

And friends we have changed for the better because we have built the great safety nets which people now take for granted: universal superannuation, a strong minimum wage, Medicare and the National Disability Insurance Scheme

What we haven’t changed is our values and we are not done yet improving this nation.

Of course, though, seasoned political veterans like many of you here can always tell when the Tories are in trouble, they always go to the same playbook of Menzies and Fraser and Howard and now, the current fellow. 

All they do is say the same three things:

“Quick, throw around some cash on tax cuts - but make sure you look after our own base more than anyone else.”

Two, they attack the union movement reflexively.

And three, whenever we talk about a fair go for all, they immediately mouth-off about ‘class war’.

This is their mantra, this is their default setting: faux tax cuts, bag the unions and talk about ‘class warfare’.

And who knows, at the next election, the way they’re going, they may well dig up old footage of Hawkey singing ‘Solidarity Forever’ and complaining about the ‘greedy parasite’.

They might even show a picture of me, wearing my bomber jacket and the double denim. 

And what they will definitely say is that Labor is just out to attack the rich.

Friend we are not – and have never been – a party fixated on ‘class’.

We are a party of ideas, a party of compassion and imagination, a party of energy and hard work.

We believe in conciliation not confrontation.

We believe in discussion and debate, we believe in democracy.

We champion the things that matter to Australians: jobs, health, education.

Not just for some of us, but for all of us.

Not for some of us, but for all of us.

Because regardless of your postcode, or your parents’ wealth, no matter whether you’re old or young, whether you live in the city or country, whether you are a woman or a man, whether your family has been here two thousand generations, eight generations or one…

We know it is education that provides the greatest source of hope.

It is decent wages that help you pay the bills and put a roof over your head.

It is health care that looks after your family.

It is productive infrastructure that drives quality of life.

It is superannuation that gives us the capacity to invest and save.

It is a better environment that meets the test we owe to our next generation

And it is communities – not the free market or its invisible hand – that will help families raise children.

None of these priorities, none of these values, are class issues.

This is the common ground that every Australian is entitled to.

This is the common wealth that every Australian citizen is entitled to by birthright and by citizenship.

Delegates

We look here out at uncertain times but we are going to build economic security for Australia and Australians.

We are going to lift living standards and get wages up and going again.

We are going to reform the tax system and make it fairer and more sustainable.

We are going to invest in our hospitals and Medicare.

We’re going to drive real change in education:

Better resources for schools and better treatment of our teachers
100,000 TAFE places for Aussie apprentices
Proper investments in child care, the workforce and those vital early years
200,000 more university places over the next ten years
We’re going to sort out aged care, for the people who raised us and we’ve got a new focus on fighting the scourge of dementia.

We’re going to drive renewable energy and we’re going to end the argument over climate change by winning the argument at the next election.

We’re going to engage with our First Australians in a truly equal partnership.

We’re going to build the very best rail and public transport in the nation and we’re going to make infrastructure about nation-building not pork-barrelling.

Oh and while we’re at it, we’re going to make the NBN work better.

We’re going to make sure the NDIS gets back on track and lives up to its noble purpose.

And for the record, we are not going to silence the ABC, we’re not going to starve the ABC, we’re not going to sell the ABC - Labor’s just going to save the ABC.

And we do these things not for some of us, but for all of us.

Not for some Australians, but for all Australians.

Delegates

It is our privilege to serve the future of this nation.

We are not the party of complacency, of indifference, whose only reason to be is to protect the status quo for the fortunate few. 

And we will not stand by as inequality grows in this country and the fair go all round becomes less certain and the requirement for having wealthy parents becomes ever more urgent and necessary.

But let me also be clear, delegates, we’ve never been a party of protest either.

We don’t sit on the sidelines like the Greens political party and say: “We’ve got a better idea but we don’t know what it is right now and we’ve certainly got no intention of every delivering it.”

And we are not a party of pretenders who boast about representing the bush whilst presiding over the poorest electorates in Australia, whilst cutting penalty rates in regional towns and cutting funding to the
ABC.

And what we are most certainly not is a party of dividers, we don’t call ourselves One Nation whilst spending our time trying to create two Australias.

We don’t go on Sunrise posing as the friend of the battler and then fly down to Canberra and vote with the Liberals on the side of multi-millionaires and the multinationals and the banks.

In this grand hall, this scene of so much struggle and success, in our movement, we know where we stand and who we stand up for. We always have.

We defend the fair go, against all-comers.

We will defend the fair now and in the future, against inequality, against discrimination, against prejudice and against racism.

We will expand the fair go, we will bring new opportunities to every generation, just like those who’ve been here before us have done for us.

We will advance the fair go, into every part of the nation.

And, if it is our considerable privilege to serve as your next government, we will deliver a fair go for all Australians.

Thank you very much.

We can win, we are ready.

This is a matter of real public importance.

A matter what choices parliament makes, what priorities it adopts, what values it implements.

Today I want to talk past the government, to the Australian people.

The fact of the matter is that wherever I travel in this great country, the two biggest priorities for all of us and for the people I talk to, is their family and their health.

It's the questions about: can you pay the bills, do you have enough for  holiday, are you able to make sure your kids can get a good education, do an apprenticeship if they want, or go to university if that’s their inclination. 

They talk about whether their kids will ever be able to buy their first home.

They talk about their ageing parents and will they be in a position to care for them, and what can be done.

They always talk about their health.

I was talking to a former member of mine, an underground miner in northern Tassie. He was going to work, doing his shift at the mine but he had just taken his daughter to local hospital, she's battling cancer.

These are the issues which affect the Australian people.

And this is what matters to me.

And this is what matters to the Australian people and this is what matters to the Labor Party. This is what Labor values are about, a fair go all around.

The Australian people do not talk to me about the urgency or the importance of an $80 billion corporate tax handout.

I'm privileged to do a lot of town hall meetings around Australia. 

I've literally spoken and listened to tens of thousands of our fellow Australians, in every location.

The issues that I get asked about, and this is what I want to say to the Australian people, the issues I understand and Labor understand are important is: how are the people on the pension going, how are they making ends meet?

Will there be an affordable place for childcare, does the childcare worker get paid appropriately?

What to do about the waiting lists in hospitals. The challenge that Tasmanians have that they have to go to the mainland to get medical services that other people take for granted.

The parents raise the issue about lack of resources in the schools, especially when their kids are getting bullied.

We talk about energy prices in these meetings, they go up and up and up.

We talk about the poor administration of the National Disability Insurance Scheme and the lack of putting people with disabilities at the centre of these services.

We talk about the frustrating search for adequate and dignified aged care.

The parents talk about apprenticeships for their kids, like they once had the chance to do.

And certainly people do raise with me, talk about the boats - but they don't say that the answer to stopping the boats is indefinite detention on Manus and Nauru.

People do raise the low level of Newstart and whether or not an older Australian has a fair go when it comes to discrimination and whether or not they keep being sent for interviews manifestly inappropriate and soul destroying for the job-seeker.

The workers in the audiences talk about labour hire and how it's used to undermine existing conditions at work. And the people on insecure work talk about the inability to get regular rosters.

And then we talk about housing and people complain, they feel the deck is stacked against them. Some people do complain about foreign investors buying residential housing.

And others complain that whenever their kids save up for the deposit, they find the price of the house just leaps the next $200,000 and they've got to go back to the start again and there are plenty of people who talk to me about the inability, not ever to even own a house but the cost of rent and secure housing and public housing and social housing.

And people talk to me about the job losses, every part of Australia we hear the government boast about job creation but they never seem to worry about the people who lose their jobs. 

Of course, I hear about the NBN failures. The fact that people have to wait for countless unmet installation turn-ups and missed appointments, the fact that the service drops out. They talk to me about the fact that as small businesses they get ignored, not just by NBN Co, but by the government who delivered this policy.

They do complain to me about the treatment of banks on small business.

They do complain about if you receive a government payment being made to feel second-class, because of the cut-backs at Centrelink. 

They certainly say to me: why don't politicians listen to them more.

But what I don't get asked about by the vast bulk of the Australian people, the people making ends meet, working hard.

The people who, as the Small Business Minister said when he was taunting me, he said: "Oh, you've only ever signed a mortgage" 

Well whether or not that's true, which it's not, what a patronising statement that people who might have signed mortgages and haven't inherited a lot of money, somehow they're not as smart as other people. 

But I never get asked about how do we do income-splitting in discretionary trusts for adult members of the family.

And I do not get asked about the importance of wedging Labor on national security.

And I don't get a lot of complaints about the ABC.

And I do not get asked about buying the Liddell power station, although it is fair to say, some people do challenge the role of privatisation in energy prices.

And I never get asked, ‘Why aren't we giving the banks a $17 billion tax cut?’

I am interested in what is real in the lives of Australians and I know that on the 1st of July, those two important priorities of families and health will take another setback. Another stagnation of the standard of living in this country.

On the 1st of July there are new cuts to childcare which hurts families.

New cuts to family payments, which hurts families.

New cuts to Sunday penalty rates, which hurts families.

And this is on top of the Medicare freeze, which hurts families.

This is on top of the rising private health insurance premiums, which hurts families.

And this is about the power bills that keep increasing, that hurts families. 

And this is on top of the longest period of wage stagnation in the nation’s recorded economic data, that hurts families. 

So today I say to the Australian people, Labor is listening to you and we know what are the real issues. 

We understand that when your family is okay and your health is okay then you're in a fighting chance to really start thinking about having quality of life and a decent standard of life.

That is why our party will not be deterred by the cat-calling and the shouting and the buffoonery of a government who desperately want to pretend that somehow if we don't back the tawdry, meaningless, shallow nature of their tax cut agenda that somehow that this is not the right thing to do.

Because we will offer Australian workers better tax cuts - and we do.

But we will also offer a plan to lift the living standards of families. 

We will invest in schools, we will invest in hospitals and we will invest in the safety net. 

We will make sure we pay down this ballooning national debt. But we will not do it at the price of cuts to schools and hospitals and the standard of living. 

We can make all of these promises because we've made a choice.

We've made a choice not to go with $80 billion of corporate tax give away and $143 billion of unfunded personal income tax cuts on the never-never.

We understand and our economic values are very straightforward. 

When there is a fair go for all, when this country becomes more equal, then we really make progress as a nation.

I did say that politics is about choices and values, it's about making hard decisions. 

I must talk about this Senator in the other place, Senator Hanson. 

She actually understand it's about choices. She actually clearly enjoys it. 

She wants to take a time to savour the experience of making choices. 

Indeed, she started out in favour, she made a choice to back the $17 billion for big banks.

Then she was against it.

Then she was for it. 

Now she's against it again. 

Then she said: ‘I haven't tried undecided yet, I'll give that a go’.

People have said she's a flip-flopper. But flip-flop implies changing your mind once, not every few hours. 

Now people might say this is an unfair interpretation on Senator Hanson's positions, so let's put it in her own words.

Last night, as she reproved those pesky Labor senators to put them back in their box, she said, and I quote:

"I said no originally. Then I said yes. Then I said no - and I've stuck to it."

She stuck to it for nearly 12 hours.

Post-it notes have a longer stickiness than Pauline Hanson to her decisions. 

This morning, she said on the Today show:

"I'll change my mind as many times as I want to ensure that I come up with the right decision." 

Let me be clear, Senator Hanson: the right decision is not to simply vote with the LNP 90 percent of the time.

The right decision is to back battlers, not to back the big end of town.

The Liberal Party homing pigeon has got one destination in mind and that is to give the banks a $17 billion tax cut.

It's a decision which the people of Australia will understand: if Australians vote for our Labor team, what we can say and what we can promise is the early years of your child's education will be properly funded. 

We will invest $17 billion in schools and teachers, based upon need.

We will renovate the TAFEs instead of closing them.

We will train Australian apprentices instead of importing skills.

We'll make sure that kids from every postcode in Australia don't have to rely on having rich parents to get a university education, to get a good job or to buy a house. 

We will make choices because we know our values and we know to stick to them. 

The fundamental choice, in this matter of public importance for the Australian people, is the Australian people have got priorities.

Long after people here have moved on to other things, long after the debates are finished, the priorities of the Australian people remain the same. It's their families and their health.

And the Labor Party will make sure that you can raise your family with financial security and dignity and that we will protect and support your health. 

That is what the people expect.

Today the Coalition Government and their One Nation allies have just shafted 10 million working Australians. 

Today the Prime Minister and his government have demonstrated their complete contempt for working and middle class Australians and Senator Hanson and her One Nation party, such as it remains, have sold out 1.9 million working people in Queensland simply to do the bidding of the LNP.

And today the Government and their puppets have locked in tax rates costing over $140 billion dollars. 

This government are so proud of what they've done but they have not explained where the money is coming from. 

They have no idea in the next seven years if the nation can afford this, they have no way of predicting the global circumstances in the next seven years. 

They have no idea even if they will be here in seven years to pick up the pieces.

But what they have done today is put a $140 billion dollars on the nation's credit card with no plan to pay for it at all.

This has been a week when people have demonstrated their true colours.

The Labor Party has stood up for 10 million working Australians. 

We do support people getting the first round of these tax cuts and we support them getting bigger, better and fair tax cuts from the next year when Labor hopefully will form a government. 

But the Prime Minister and his allies have revealed their true colours too. 

They have yet again sold out working people and prioritised the needs of the most well-off over everyone else. 

Now I do recognize that at least the Prime Minister is consistent in his arrogance and his out of touch views of the world but One Nation pretend to be different. 

They cry crocodile tears to be on the side of the people who are doing it hard, but when it matters they line up with the LNP and they keep voting for the big end of town. 

One Nation has dudded 10 million ordinary Australians today -  they rob teachers and tradies of Labor's bigger, better, fairer tax cuts of about $1000 a year every year going forward, but they have given millionaires an extra $7000 dollars a year. They have voted for a plan, this One Nation gaggle and rabble, they have voted for a plan which gives 80 per cent of this $140 billion dollars to the top 20 per cent, and we will remind them of that mistake every day until the next election. 

Now to be fair the Prime Minister also showed his true colours this week and I thought there was almost a eureka moment on Tuesday when the Prime Minister used those famous words, 'I am a snob.'

And I did think there was a "hallelujah I've seen the light. At least I can say what I really think and the truth will set me free." 

I did wait for a string of frontbench confessions to follow; there is the lamentable Minister for Health, the Bruce Banner like character talking about his most recent transformation into the swearing Incredible Hulk, I wanted to hear the Minister for Communications just finally admit he wants his own show on the ABC, I thought perhaps the Minister for Home Affairs would declare his undiminished affection for The Guardian and I did wonder if the Leader of the House would finally concede his sneaking admiration of the very strong and tough CFMEU but unfortunately none of that happened it was a short outbreak of Liberal truth-telling.

But what this Prime Minister did do, is he did say when asked about the circumstances of a 60 year old aged care worker in Burnie, and why should she have to get the job of an investment banker to get the sort of tax cut that the Prime Minister is handing that person, she received the gratuitous advice to just get a better job, she aspires to a better job.

The Government expressed such surprise at the reaction which has followed. What the Prime Minister should have realised is that perhaps this aged care worker doesn't want to change industries and towns and professions, perhaps she just wants to get better pay as a carer.

Why should she stop caring for people and have to do a different job in order to get the sort of money that the Prime Minister thinks everyone aspires to?

Perhaps she aspires to better penalty rates.

Perhaps she aspires to better ratios of staff to patients in these facilities.

Perhaps she aspires to better funding for aged care. Perhaps she even aspires to a better Prime Minister.

The Government today has used this language of winners. They've said that the Australian people are winners but some people are bigger winners than others under this Government package.

For 10 million people, they're going to get $10 a week and the Prime Minister says where's my bouquet of flowers for looking after people with $10 a week.

But he's also happy to acknowledge other winners: the banks get $17 billion under this Government. We will not cover up a giveaway to the big banks or the top 20 per cent by simply fobbing people off with $10 a week. 

Instead, we aspire for a better deal for $10 million Australians. We aspire to the view that they should get better funded schools and not better tax concessions and negative gearing. 

We believe that people aspire to better funded hospitals, not better tax subsidies for the large multinationals and the big banks. 

We believe that people aspire to be able to be able to afford buy their first home rather than their tenth investment property.

The Liberal Party have talked about class war this week. I mean, they have form and history on talking about class war. Robert Menzies even spoke about class war during the real war, but we're happy to talk about this accusation from the Government.

I say to the Government, if you ask most Australians, it is not class war to demand a better tax cut for $10 million working Australians. 

It is not class war to demand better funded hospitals, better funded schools, better funded universities, better funded TAFE.

It is never class war to demand better wages and safer workplaces.

Instead, class war is when you cut $17 billion from hospitals and give it to the big four banks.

Class war is cutting money from Medicare and giving it to multinationals.

Class war is cutting penalty rates and boosting the salaries of CEOs.

Class war is cutting the pension energy supplement and increasing the working age to 70.

Class war is attacking the independent public broadcaster, the ABC, on behalf of vested media interests.

Class war is denying the doors of university to 200,000 extra students.

Class warfare is cutting 120,000 apprenticeships out of the system.

Class warfare is suppressing the wages of working Australians for the last five years.

This is the problem, though: the Prime Minister has always had these out of touch views.

And I was reminded of his remarkable words on 7 of November 2005.

He said:

"The simple economic truth is if you wish to promote economic activity, you've got to promote transactions. And in this case, employment transactions, you should reduce the cost of entry into those transactions."

Anyway, he clarified himself subsequently - he said:

"You have to free the market to do its work and let the cost of setting the clearing price, be it for labour, shares, home units or loaves of bread, be as low as possible." 

Our Prime Minister doesn't understand how the real world constructs its finances.

Our Prime Minister is the only Prime Minister of this country who has ever compared the working wages of working people to the cost of loaves of bread - and he wants to pay less.

So make no mistake - we will not be lectured on this side of the House about aspiration because our definition of aspiration is not reserved to investment bankers and barristers and Cabinet ministers in this Government.

We do not think you need to be making $200,000 to be aspirational.

We believe in the aspiration of equal opportunity.

We believe in the aspiration to be able to buy your first home, to get a quality education for your kids, to be able to access quality health care.

We believe in the aspiration to see your kids get an apprenticeship or go to university.

We believe in the aspiration of leaving the next generation and future generations with a better environment than we inherited - and dignity in retirement.

We believe in the aspiration to a decent first class NBN.

We believe in the aspiration of job security and a good wage - and we don't regard the loss of 8000 Telstra jobs as just what happens time to time.

We believe in the aspiration to hand on a better deal to your kids than the one you inherited from your parents.

In fact, in Labor we believe in the oldest Australian aspiration of all: a fair go for all in this country.

And we say to the Prime Minister, if you really believe your latest talking points that you claim across the dispatch box in this Parliament…

If you really believe that Aussies want cuts to schools and hospitals...

Bring it on in the by-elections.

I don't know how many of you are students of history and metereology at the same time but on fresh mornings like this, I think of King O’Malley.

He wanted the nation's capital to have cold winters because, as he said many times:

‘Cold climates have produced the greatest geniuses’.

So I guess that’s why you always give the Opposition Leader the chilly breakfast slot.

CEDA has a richly-deserved reputation for digging deeper than the headlines and perhaps getting to grips with the substance.

I think your report this year is a stand out and this morning I want to join in the same direction as the report, take a little bit of time to go past the politics and talk about the real policy choices facing our nation.

I want to talk about jobs and wages, I want to talk about taxes and budget repair and the investments we need to sustain the prosperity and the future of our country.

I don't think that the headlines you read tell the full story of our economy, not by a long shot. That’s one of the reasons why I hold regular town hall meetings.

This is nothing new, going out and talking to people is not a radical idea, perhaps it is less usual than it should be in current politics though. 

It's important to get away from the noise of the parliament and hear directly from our fellow Australians about how they're going.
I have to say, in that context, I was terribly interested to see the research published by CEDA yesterday. You got it right. CEDA just nailed it. 

They were talking about the ‘economic disconnect’ between Australia’s long run of growth and people’s sentiment that they're not sharing equally in the promises and the benefits, that their living standards have not improved.

I'm not sure ‘economic disconnect’ is the most Shakespearean of terms to capture the sentiment but I think it is pretty brutal in its direct nature.

I notice that you’ve chosen ‘resilience’ as a theme, we are a resilient people, we Australians.

But I meet, and I'm sure you do, many of our fellow Australians, and perhaps even some of you here, who feel like the economy and politics is not serving their interests, or the interests of their family’s or their community’s.

Many of our fellow Australians think that the deck is stacked and the deal is in. It's all a done deal.

I think it would be wrong of the current government in power to dismiss the very real challenges that people face in their daily lives by simply calling it a matter of ‘envy’.

Since when, in our democracy, is to complain about inequality envy? That somehow saying that our standard of living hasn't advanced is just ‘jealousy’.

As leaders and policy-makers, we need to recognise that rising inequality and stagnating or falling living standards are genuine threats to the fair go, and genuine threats to our national economic success and to the prospects of future economic reform.

The importance of tackling inequality, of growing the economy by including more people in its opportunities, this is not some fringe view - this is the economic mainstream 21st century, from the IMF, to the OECD and our own Reserve Bank Governor.

And it why’s people recognise the importance of ‘inclusive prosperity’.

Because when we invest in childcare, the early years, when we invest in schools, when we invest in TAFE and when we invest in universities - employers and businesses get the benefit of a more skilled, better educated, more empowered workforce.

When we properly fund health care and hospitals – businesses and employers get the benefit of a healthier, more productive workforce.

When we build new infrastructure, roads and rail and ports and airports and a better NBN – we create new local jobs and businesses collect the productivity dividend.

And when we deliver a genuine improvement in living standards: tax cuts for working-class and middle class people, reducing out-of-pocket costs for healthcare and capping private health insurance premium increases, when we can get the energy bills down and when we can get wages up - this drives stronger consumption, more demand. It builds a healthier economy. It creates confidence.

Simply put: Labor's economic proposition is that Australia thrives when working class and middle class Australians get a fair go. When they have growing living standards.

It's why I’ve never bought in to the false dichotomy, the false choice between growth on one hand and fairness on the other, as if they're strangers in two different rooms never to meet.

To me, it’s not an either-or proposition between an economy that creates work for people or a society that looks after them, we need both and each one depends on the other.

It is what Australia is about: common effort, for shared reward.

And lifting living standards starts with a pay rise for working Australians.

Our nation is enduring the longest period of wage stagnation on record. And when the costs of essentials keep rising, historically low wages growth makes it even more difficult to balance the family budget for most Australians.

That's the ‘economic disconnect’ the fact that for all of the hard work which people feel that they're putting in, they feel like they’re falling behind.

The Reserve Bank Governor is hardly a Corbyn-Sanders-‘Occupy Wall Street’ figure but I thought he put it pretty well last week when he said: “slow wages growth is diminishing our sense of shared prosperity”.

He went on to say that low wages growth also means extremely high levels of household debt in Australia and that these will “stay higher for longer”.  It really makes sense and I'm sure describes some of the circumstances of the people in this room.

People who took out a mortgage or a personal loan on the expectation that wages growth would have a 3 in front of it instead of a 2 haven’t made much of a hole in their principal in the last few years. And this, of course, affects their spending in the economy.

I believe that getting wages moving, wages growing, is a first-order priority for the nation and for government. I think it's the right and fair thing to do for people – and it’s essential to growing our economy and growing the confidence of people.

Yet whenever we ask my opposite number about wages growth, he loftily says: “the laws of supply and demand have not been suspended”. And that if you get unemployment down, people’s pay will simply go up.

This wilfully ignores what’s really happening behind the headlines of unemployment.

I speak of course of underemployment.

Underemployment, the number of Australians who regularly record they would like to work more hours but can’t find them, is creeping back up towards the peak it achieved in the early part of 2017.

And let’s be clear: this isn’t about people choosing to work part-time because they’re juggling caring responsibilities, or studying.

There are over a million of our fellow Australians who monthly record they can’t find as many hours to work as they would like.

Underemployment traps our fellow Australians into insecure work and it also affects every worker in the economy, because it depresses wages outcomes.

As Greg Jericho the columnist put it, there “is a lot of extra spare capacity in the labour market - people who would take more hours over a pay rise”.

So if we have this persistent problem of underemployment, if it stays at this level, modest gradual improvement in the overall unemployment rate doesn't help workers catch-up with years of flat wages.

And of course, there’s also more than just underemployment standing between Australian workers and the pay rise they deserve.
We have a damaging over-reliance in this country on skilled visas.

Now, perhaps during the mining boom, this was understandable.

But there's no excuse in Australia for a skills shortage to last one day longer than it takes to train an Australian. That’s why properly funding public TAFE and apprenticeships are core economic business for Labor.

And we need to fix the flaws in the system which will allow some employers to use visa workers as a way of driving down overall wages and conditions.

And when these guest workers are exploited, that reflects on all of us.

The good employers who try to do the right thing by their workforce are put at a disadvantage.

And local people miss out on jobs they should be doing, or they are forced to work for less.

The absence of a wages policy and wages outcomes are not just influenced by underemployment or over-reliance on skills visas but the state of our industrial relations system. 

I spent a decade and a half negotiating agreements between employers and employees.

And no matter how contested the proposition or how high the stakes were, there was almost always a reservoir of goodwill you could draw upon.

You could work through the 10 per cent which you disagreed on between employer and employee, because you knew you had that foundation of 90 per cent agreement, the understanding that the company and the worker shared a common interest, their goals were aligned.

Because a more productive workplace always meant a more profitable enterprise which distributed these profits to better-paid employees. 

But in too many places now, the connection is broken, wage negotiations are simply seen as a cost issue to drive wages down. The spirit of shared endeavour and the search for productivity is lost in too many cases.

These days, too many businesses are encouraged by the system and the lawyers to view their workforce purely as a cost to be minimised.

Through the use of skills visas.
Through the use of off-shoring.
Through cuts to penalty rates and entitlements.
Through the aggressive use of labour hire to replace permanent jobs with labour hire workers on lower wages and conditions..
And of course now we see something I didn't think I would see when I first started in the enterprise bargaining process in the early 1990s, we are just seeing the termination of wage agreements altogether.

What I mean by that is, I was brought up in a system where bargaining between employees and employers was to create productive workplaces, profitable workplaces and a better share of the income derived at that workplace. That was the system which I was brought up to believe in.


But now we have a system which rewards companies for terminating their agreements, giving ultimatums to their employees: you can have the award or a wage cut.  Because generally the agreements have advanced so far ahead of the award that the threat of a wage cut was more attractive than the threat of going back to the award.

This isn’t an exaggeration.

In 2015, the Fair Work Commission terminated 12 Aurizon agreements covering 6000 workers. This case led to a trigger and a significant increase in the number of terminations and an increased use of the threat of termination as the nuclear option in negotiations.

Many of you have negotiated for a living. You understand that when you have a negotiation with another party, you must always look at the alternative. What's the best alternative to not getting agreement? 

What now happens with the use of the current workplace laws? Do some employers now have a better alternative to negotiating with their workers, to just reduce the pay and conditions through the system itself.

Enterprise bargaining has meant, and used to mean, a boost to pay and productivity in concert.

But now, let's have a look at what's happened in the last two or three years under the Coalition Government.

Until the most recent quarter, there has been no improvement in productivity in two years.

Last year was the worst year of private sector wage increases and enterprise agreements for twenty five years.

And the September quarter of that year produced the lowest number of approved EBAs since 1995.

How can it be the case that when we're looking for better, more productive workplace relations, we seem to have wound back the clock to before enterprise bargaining. 

And all I ever hear the government say about unions is how bad they are. You don’t need to be a former union rep, though, or even a union member to be affected by this problem.

There are flow-on consequences of a bargaining system that's not delivering for workforces right across the industry.

It affects the whole of our economy by undermining confidence, by dampening consumption.

I think that this nation is long overdue to rebuild the link between the profits, productivity and pay. For the sake of family budgets and for the sake of our national ethos, the national fair go.

I think the final fundamental point about Australia needing a lift in wages growth is in the budget papers.

In the first Turnbull/Morrison budget, they forecast wages growth of 2.5 per cent for 2016/2017, they got 1.9 per cent.

This year so far, we’re stuck at 2.1 per cent. Yet last week, the Liberals and their allies, the One Nation political party, put $144 billion dollars on the national credit card based on the assumption that wages growth would suddenly roar back to 3.5 per cent.

So, the strength of this point is simply this.

This government is writing promises on the national credit card that cannot be sustained in the future based on the overly optimistic forecasts of national revenue.

And what if these forecasts, which have proven to be wrong already, are wrong in the future? How does the nation afford to give away this money out of the nation’s ATM without causing significant and deep cuts to fundamental essential services?

And, of course, the government has said that they'll give $10 a week to people under $90,000 - $10 a week.

But if you're not getting your wages to move, this whole value of this tax cut becomes even less in benefit.

So our wages policy - because Labor believes that a government or an opposition should have a wages policy - is to take clear and positive steps.

A plan to get enterprise bargaining off life support.
A plan to reverse the arbitrary, unilateral cuts to Sunday and public holiday penalty rates, the second round which will take effect this weekend. 
A plan to crack down on the misuse of labour hire and other forms of exploitation which drive down pay.
And of course, being the only political party with a wages policy, it wouldn't be a complete wages policy unless it was a plan to tackle one of the most stubbornly unfair examples of inequality in Australia, the gender pay gap.

At our current rate of improvement on the gender pay gap, it will take 150 years for Australian women to earn the same as Australian men.

My youngest daughter is eight, I don't want her granddaughter's generation to be the first woman guaranteed equal pay.

We need to do more to boost the pay of women who work in feminized industries, jobs that are vital to our future of our economy, our society, like health care, like the NDIS, like aged care.

And we need to do a lot more to provide a level playing field for women in the workplace, a Labor government will make this a priority within wages policy. 

At the National Press Club at the beginning of this year, the end of January, I promised that Labor would demonstrate the courage to do what needed to be done, even if it was a politically difficult course.

Last week was one of those moments.  We were happy to vote for stage one of the government's tax plan. We have a better policy but we didn't want to stand in the way of the $10.

That’s why, in my budget reply, I pledged a bigger, better and fairer tax cut for the 10 million people earning up to $125,000.

Under our affordable plan, someone on $65,000 will get $928 back each year, almost double what the government is offering.

When you walk out of this venue today and you see the security personnel and when the waiters who serve you and clean up your plates, understand that what we represent to them is double the tax refund that the government wants to give them.

Let me use another illustration: if you're on $65,000 a year under the first three years of a Labor Government, not in seven years’ time under this government, you will get a $2780 tax refund.

A family with one partner on $90,000 and the other on $55,000 will be $5565 better off under Labor in our first three years - that's about $1900 each year.

$1900 isn't a king's ransom but it’s not bad, and it certainly helps you make ends meet more easily than the current offering from the government.

The other thing about our tax refunds is that they are targeted to the people who need it most. The people who put the money back into the economy, who boost consumption and growth.

I'm sure you would probably agree that if you live on $60,000 and $70,000 a year, as much as you want to save money, most of your income will go in expenditure.

And if we give these millions of our fellow Australians a decent tax cut every year for the next three years and beyond, that money will go into the Australian economy, it will circulate and that will build confidence.

When people have money to spend, that is a rising tide that lifts all boats.

But I said that we're willing to make tough decisions.

So when it came to stages two and three which, by the way, won't come into effect until 2022/2023 and indeed 2024/2025 for this stage three.

How on earth could any responsible opposition support such an irresponsible plan from this irresponsible government? This notion that unless you vote for prospective tax cuts more than two electoral cycles away somehow you are practicing class warfare is ridiculous.

If we went out and spoke to most Australians and said do you really think that you’re going to see a tax cut in seven years’ time, when we don't know how we're going to pay for it, when we don't think that the authors of that decision will even be here in the positions they're in.

Do you think most people would believe it?

What we won't do is sell people a false bill of goods for some prospective date down the track when there is no buffer for economic uncertainty.

That does not mean we shouldn't be doing tax reform in two and three terms’ time, but successive parliaments should debate these issues and have a much better sense of what can actually be delivered.

I have to say that, for a start on these future projections, this government can't even get its own wages projections right over two years.
Can any of you here say with absolute confidence what the global circumstances will be in seven years’ time?

Can you say with any confidence who the President of the United States will be? I’m not sure I would have picked the last outcome.
But the point about it is we live in a volatile global environment.

Trade conflict. Uncertainty in the US bond market. There is growing global debt. There are shifting debt dynamics in Europe. There is the potential for interest rate rises. Global debt is increasing.

It is like a sleeping dragon which is dulled by the insulin of low interest rates. But what happens if in the next seven years there is a change?

Our own national debt has doubled, more than doubled, in the last five years. It is half a trillion dollars. That's $21,000 nominally for every man woman and child with an annual interest payment of $18 billion. That is our national debt.

We do not know what is coming next in terms of the next few years, but surely prudential governments don't just try and stimulate confidence in the economy, don't just make promises which can’t be paid for but they also build policy buffers that safeguard our nation to protect us from external pressures.

They don't bet the house on the basis of continued good times for the next seven and ten years.

Stage three of this much-vaunted but I think mythical tax cut, this radical scheme to collapse the tax scales so a cleaner in the office building working here tonight earns $50,000 and pays the same tax rate as an executive on $200,000 will cost the budget $33 billion over just five years.

That’s about $6.5 billion a year. That's roughly what our government spends on public education throughout Australia.

Eighty cents in every one of those $33 billion will be going to the top 20 percent of income earners.

Many of these people are not living paycheque to paycheque. They're not the ones who spend nearly every dollar they get, which will help boost growth.

This support for people on the highest incomes is not part of a broader agenda for genuine tax reform and budget repair.

There's no plan to shut down unaffordable, unsustainable taxation loopholes to limit deductions and reform other concessions like negative gearing and income-splitting.

Instead, the government simply say about their tax promises for the future: “Don't worry it's in the budget”.

Well it's not in the budget. 

How do you take $143 billion in promised personal income tax scale changes and another $80 billion in promised corporate tax reductions, and not pay a price for it?

You simply can't take a quarter of a trillion dollars out of the nation's ATM in the next seven and ten years, without explaining what you do. 

And there's only three ways to pay for these promises which this Government is hoaxing us on:

One, increase other taxes.
Two, cut services  
Or three, pay a bigger interest bill on the national debt which means you've got to go back to options one and two anyway.
Have you heard any government politician explain how they're going to pay for this money?If you take it out of the nation’s ATM, what gives? And they're doing it on the basis of economic uncertainty.

Now, we actually think you do need to invest in the future of this country but we think that you use scarce taxpayer money to invest for the future.

For five years now, Australia has been told that the nation cannot properly afford to fund TAFE or apprenticeships.

For five years now, Australia has been told that we can't afford to invest in schools or ensure that working class kids can go to university through uncapping places. 

We've been told for five years that we cannot afford to unfreeze Medicare, that we cannot do anything about increasing the patient rebate or to help people with their out-of-pocket medical costs. 

We've been told that the Government couldn't afford to spend a couple hundred million dollars to save the car manufacturing industry. 

We've been told that they can't afford to pay pensioners or government payment recipients an extra $7 a week to help with their energy bills. 

We've been told things are so tough, we can't even take the GST off tampons. 

We've been told that we can't afford to do anything for the 100,000 plus people waiting for aged care packages - many of whom have been diagnosed as living with dementia. 

We've been told that we can't afford to fund successful Indigenous housing programs in remote communities, creating jobs and apprenticeships for Aboriginal Australians. 

We've been told that we couldn't even afford a first-rate technology for the NBN. 

We can't even afford to pay for the ABC cost increases anymore.

But we actually do know the truth after these five years.

Government can afford to invest in these services, they can afford to invest in the future of our nation's infrastructure, in the productive capacity of our people, in our safety net of the fair go all round. They just choose not to. 

The money's there, ladies and gentlemen. It must be, because after all the Government can afford to give $250 billion away, most of which will go to the top end.

This government, this meaningless government - and that's a harsh word - but it is a fundamentally a meaningless government. 

When they talk about health, you know they do so, so they can stop being attacked for health cuts. They talk about health because they feel they have to. 

You know that when they talk about schools funding, you can just see them looking for a band-aid big enough to hide the cuts. 

You know their heart is not in it. 

But get them onto tax cuts, get them onto industrial relations and union bashing - a little bit of personal character assessment on the Opposition - they just fire right up.

Where is that passion on the other things? It is quite funny some days. 

But literally, the full extent, in all seriousness, of their strategy, the full extent of their economic strategy is tax scale reductions for the top end, in the hope that will trickle-down to everyone else.

But they have the money to do all those other things I've spoken about and help reduce the national debt. 

I fundamentally disagree with the priorities of this Government. But I actually welcome the philosophical differences. 

I actually do believe that my opposite number believes in taking the burden off the top, I think he genuinely believes that. It is a clash of values.

In an adversarial democracy like ours, we should produce a clash of ideas, a clash of substance. There are very clear choices for the Australian people.

Now, no one goes into politics hoping for a long spell in opposition. But my team and I have made good use of this time. 

We've spent the last five years developing our social and economic program for the nation. 

We think it's in contrast to this pretty meaningless government, indifferent to the big challenges Australia is facing. They're uninterested in people's daily lives. 

I believe Australia can do better and I'm determined for Labor to be better.

CEDA speaks about an economic disconnect - you're right, there is.

And this economic disconnect leads to perhaps, the real challenge. A sense that the fair go all round isn't the fair go all round. It contaminates our view of politics, our sense of cynicism, apathy and disinterest in politics. And when you see this nation debating the priorities this is the challenge.

We do offer a real policy choice.

We have a demonstrably superior first round of tax refunds for working and middle class people. 

We will fund schools and hospitals better.  

We get excited about funding schools, TAFE and university and the early years.

We are very committed to making our health care system affordable, reducing the out-of-pocket costs.

We are focused on a national energy policy - not just dealing with the civil war in our own party on 'is climate change real?'

And we have a strategy to pay down our national debt faster. 

We have a plan to boost wages. 

We want to make sure your kids get a quality education.

We want to make sure that universities are funded to offer an extra 200,000 places in the next 10 years. 

We are going to fund the upfront fees of 100,000 TAFE courses in our first three years. 

We will reverse the cuts to hospitals. 

We will take up a 50 per cent share of hospital funding with the states. We want people to be able afford the treatment when they need it - we don't want them to have to travel hours and wait years to get attention. 

We will back business and manufacturers with accelerated depreciation for investing on new equipment over $20,000. We will increase whatever your depreciation schedule is by 20 percent on day one you invest in new technology, new productivity building technology.

We will provide access to finance for our tourism industry, for our advanced manufacturing industry. 

We will put a floor underneath which renewable policy and renewable energy can be invested in - and force downward pressure on prices.

We will get the NBN working for people and business, we will make NBNCo accountable.

We'll make sure that older Australians get the care and dignity they deserve in retirement. 

We will tackle the scourge of dementia and we will help families helping a loved one living with dementia get a better deal. 

We will win the battle of ideas.

The next election is close - either side could win it.

We've made the choice not to be a small target Opposition. 

We will run on a clear set of values and ideas.

And they are based not on an envy of wealth but a desire that if we can support working people, the small businesses, the farmers and the pensioners get a fair go, that is a rising tide lifts the fair go all round within Australia.

We think that the best economic plan for Australia is to include all Australians in the economic plan.

Get the safety net right, get the wages policy right, get the productivity humming.

Work with people, not dividing people.

We'll cure the disconnect. 

Thirty years ago Bob Hawke met with the leadership of the Central and Northern Land councils here on this sacred ground.

It is true and sad that some of those who celebrated that day have passed on. 

We remember them with respect, including the great Nugget Coombs.

But it also fills me with a sense of that history to know that some of those who were there, with the memories of 30 years ago, are here again today.

Galarrwuy Yunupingu, Jack Ah Kit, David Ross, Geoffrey Shaw and many other Land Council members and employees. 

I'm proud to be walking on this ground today with the now Senator Patrick Dodson, who was a director of the Central Land Council then, and Warren Snowdon, who was the Member for the Northern Territory back then. 

Patrick, Warren and I are joined by Senator Malarndirri McCarthy of the Northern Territory, Linda Burney, Luke Gosling from the Darwin area, and many more of our Labor colleagues. 

You should please take as a mark of respect of this gathering, that so many members of the Federal Labor Party are here today, because we think today is important.

I also want to acknowledge Barbara Shaw Senior and Margaret Yunupingu, who played such a big part of the organising ceremony and hospitality for Bob Hawke and Hazel Hawke.

It is a reminder of everything that Aboriginal women do to keep families and community together - and it is proof that we need the voices of women heard in meetings like this, and in every decision we make. 

I should also mention Bob Hawke and Gerry Hand, his then Minister, who would love to be here but are currently not well. 

I want to say directly to all of you - today is about truth-telling.

And the hard truth is that the Parliament of Australia has not lived up to the promise that was made 30 years ago.

Too many words from the Barunga Statement of 30 years ago have not become reality.

As Senator Dodson said to me last night, "people out here cannot understand why you white fellas haven't got the message after 30 years."

Today, I am here to listen, to learn but I also want to talk to you about things that we can do.

I want to put to you that there are things that we can do based on four values: 

Honour
Equality
Respect
Recognition
Honouring our First Nation leaders who have shown the way forward for our nation over the generations. 

Equality; equality in the courts and in the law, equality in education, and in housing and in jobs, equality.

Respect for the world's oldest living culture - for its thousands of languages, for values that have sustained the people who have cared for this land for over 65,000 years. 

But along with honour and equality and respect, there must be recognition. 

Recognition that Aboriginal people never willingly gave up their country, their land, their languages, their families. 

Recognition that things were taken without negotiation, without agreement, or compensation.

And recognition that these injustices must be made right - including through compensation for the remaining survivors of the Stolen Generations here in the Northern Territory and elsewhere.

I am optimistic that we can build a reconciled Australia, built upon these four values of honour, equality, respect and recognition.

And I am confident that there is a new momentum for a voice, and new hope for agreements and treaties. 

Yesterday, in my home state of Victoria, we saw what happened.

What is happening here today is a strong foundation with the leadership of Michael Gunner. 

A strong foundation that we can do at the national level to build both decision-making, agreement-making and self-determination. 

I think perhaps in our busy world, it is easy to forget our history sometimes.

Not all Australians would recall that ATSIC was actually a product of the Barunga Statement, and its call for greater self-determination. 

30 years on we now have a new proposal, shaped by 1,200 consultations and an historic summit at Uluru. 

The Statement from the Heart calls for a voice for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 

It is a new proposal for a very old aspiration. For the First Australians to have a meaningful say in the decisions which govern their lives, which govern their land and govern the future. 

I understand that the voice must be shaped and designed by the people it seeks to speak for. 

It must supplement and complement existing local and regional statutory bodies - not replace them, nor reinvent them. 

I know there is more work to do. But I stand in front of you today telling you that my party, the Labor Party of Australia has taken the Statement from the Heart into our hearts.

A new Labor Government will legislate to establish a voice, and we will seek to establish the bipartisan and national support to enshrine it in our Constitution. 

We will establish a Makarrata Commission to work with National Congress, to work with land councils, First Nation leaders, the States and the Territories to continue the work of truth-telling and agreement-making. 

None of this is about symbolism or gestures. It is about self-determination, it is about making sure that Aboriginal people are at the front of mind in national policy-making.

Because when you look at the practical solutions to the evil of poverty, the evil of disadvantage, of incarceration and violence, discrimination and racism, the solutions must be authored, and owned, and driven by the First Australians. 

It's why, if I am successful at the next election and Labor forms a government, we will immediately hold a National Summit, to tackle the unacceptable crisis of Aboriginal children growing up away from country, culture and connection. 

It is why I am committed to seeing more First Australians serving in the Parliaments of Australia, making laws for all Australians. 

And we will put focus on practical programs which Aboriginal people control.

We will double for example, the number of Indigenous Rangers working on country. 

We will ensure Indigenous ownership of decisions of the Aboriginal Benefits Account, and we will be guardians supporting the Land Rights Act. 

There is a lot of learning which we can do here today, but I want to just conclude with this point. 

For a very long time, we as Australians have read all the reputable reports, we have seen all of the investigations, we understand what needs to be done. 

We understand that there is unfinished business. 

We need no more evidence of it, no more inquiries about it, no more reports about it. 

The time has come to finish the unfinished business of achieving a reconciled Australia. 

No Australian can pretend that they don't know. 

And what we will need to do is not just here, but we will need to appeal to the goodwill of all Australians, if we are to achieve long-overdue equality, respect, recognition and honour. 

I believe that our fellow Australians are up for this journey, they just need leadership. 

Most Australians I believe, would be in sympathy and solidarity and agreement with what we talk about today. 

The process of truth-telling and agreement-making and treaties is not beyond the capacity of Australians to embrace. 

It is not beyond the capacity of Australians to support a vision for a reconciled Australia. 

But we need to ensure that we bring the people with us, their response will be crucial, making the case will be crucial.

We need the public with us, and to bring the people with us we need leadership. 

This is not an excuse, but it is a recognition that for a reconciled Australia, it must be built upon the principle of honour, on the principle of equality, on the principle of respect, and the principle of recognition. 

A cut in funding to the ABC may not determine the outcome of the next election but it does determine the sort of country we are and the sort of direction this nation is taking. 

This government has neither an agenda, nor any real authority but it does do good vendetta. 

It speaks every day against the unions or against better conditions for workers, it speaks against properly funding our schools and our hospitals, our TAFE and our universities. 

But it also, in the last budget, it has cut the national broadcaster and the capacity of the national broadcaster to fulfil its charter. 

In the Budget, barely two weeks ago, $83.7 million was cut from the ABC in the form of an indexation freeze over the next three years. 

This cut is on top of the $254 million cut in 2014 and another $28 million in 2016.

I think many Australians as they listen to the parliamentary debate have noticed this notorious cut to the ABC but wondered why on earth there is not more debate about it.

So, today, my colleagues and I speak up to defend the ABC and to defend a deeper principle: the fundamental principle of Australia possessing a quality, well-funded, independent public broadcaster. 

Labor stands up for the ABC and the Coalition attack it.

And do they complain about the ABC.

I have the latest example, on the 6th of May this year the ABC news ran a story analysing the Government’s “innovation agenda”.

On the next day, which happened to be the day before the Budget, when you think the Prime Minister might have had something more to do with his time, sent through a list of 11 complaints about the story.

He couldn’t even cut it down to a modest 10.

You could just imagine, the first thing Monday morning, poor old PMO staffer called into his lordship's office and said: “Take a letter to the ABC”.

“Dear Sir/Madam

Here are 11 things wrong with last night’s segment.”

Signed, Bitterly disappointed, Point Piper”

And how many of his complaints prompted a correction?

Was it eleven?  No.

Was it ten? Was it five? 

Just one!

And did the Prime Minister then, having scored a manifest victory to get one correction off the ABC, did he leave it there, flushed with the glow of another success of the Turnbull Government?

Not at all.

He rang up Senator Fifield, and he said: "Lodge a separate complaint!"

And then though, when it comes to the ABC, Senator Fifield is something of a vexatious litigant. 

The sort of chap who’d take you to court for putting your recycling in his bin on bin night.

This year he is averaging one complaint a month:

In January, he complained about Triple J moving the date of the Hottest 100, in response to a voluntary national survey - how dare they?

He then complained about an Emma Alberici article on corporate tax.

He complained about a Tonightly sketch insulting John Batman.

He complained, because nothing escapes his stellar gaze, about a sketch on Black Comedy, on the ABC Indigenous Facebook page

Then of course it was Emma Alberici again and the Prime Minister’s blockbuster:  ‘11 things I hate about the ABC’. 

I have to say, we do question his priorities as Minister for Communications but you can't fault his commitment to letter-writing and keeping Australia Post in business. 

Now, to the best of anyone's knowledge, the last time a Communications Minister referred a complaint about the ABC to the regulator was in 2003 when Senator Richard Alston complained about their coverage of the weapons of mass destruction in the Iraq War.

Now I do say though of Senator Fifield in all seriousness, he wants to talk about complaints: why don't you focus on the 204 percent increase in complaints in the NBN?

These complaints though, as amusing as they are, are not just a harmless obsession, they come with real consequences. 

Cuts to the ABC have become a fact of life under conservative governments. 

The efficiency reviews.

The faux 'competitive neutrality’ inquiries.

The deals with One Nation to change the charter. 

Now the poor old National Party, once upon a time under Minister Nixon, they knew enough about the bush to understand that you had to back the ABC - but that doesn't even happen anymore.

And in the past to be fair, to be fair, the Liberals would at least offer a reason, under Howard or under Fraser, to cut back the ABC. But now they don't even bother, no reasons. 

It has become part of the accepted part of the conservative political landscape in Australia to be into reducing and bashing the ABC. 

There is no doubt that the ABC in the last 20 years has been harmed by the ironically named ‘culture’ wars led by the right wing in Australian politics.

But when you look at any genuinely independent survey, despite all of the attacks, commercial and ideological, the ABC still retains a level of credibility and trust unmatched by any other media organisation and indeed most institutions in Australian life.

And this is what the out of touch Prime Minister always gets wrong. 

He wants to protect the banks from the scrutiny of a Royal Commission

He refuses, stubbornly, to support a National Integrity Commission, a Federal ICAC to restore some faith in our system. 

But he still finds the time to attack the most trusted institution in our country. 

The ABC is part of the fabric of our country.

17 million of our fellow Australians consume some form of ABC content every week. 

It's the cricket and the footy on the radio

It's the brilliant drama made on shoestring budgets.

It's AM, it's Radio National. It's Triple J

It's Playschool, it's Behind the News.

It's the company on the long drives in the bush. 

It's the calm and comfort for older Australians in the late evenings or on iView to catch up on the latest, to revisit an old favourite. 

Our nation has grown up with the ABC. 

The first radio and TV services heard in the bush were courtesy of our ABC. 

In the Second World War Australians learned that we were at war, listening to Prime Minister Menzies on the ABC.  

And for many Australians, the great news of V-J Day being celebrated in Martin Place was broadcast by the ABC.

Our nation has grown up with the ABC, indeed, we all have. 

I remember as a child knowing that when you could hear that majestic fanfare theme song of the news coming on, it's time to start preparing for bed.

And at different times in our lives, even if we don't always listen to the ABC, in the cycle of life patterns we come back and listen to our ABC. 

It has a far greater responsibility to cover in our far-flung nation, urban and regional, than any other media organisation. And it does cost money. 

And I am deeply concerned that this government is perpetuating a malaise and a disillusionment within the ABC about the future of the ABC.

It is fundamental to the health of our democracy.

I acknowledge the importance of commercial media operations, the commercial mastheads of our print and the role of active journalism in our daily lives.

But nothing, nothing can replace the central role in our democracy of an independent, not-for-profit, public broadcaster which is well-funded.

Any politician who says that they've never been frustrated with the ABC, well, you’ve never been in politics then.

But if you can't put the personal aside and put the nation's interests first, then you shouldn't be in politics.

It demands, I believe, in our democracy and the role of the ABC in the words of the first ABC TV news broadcast 71 years ago, it is: 

“News you don’t have to fetch and carry…The view you can get without having to go to your window.”

As Opposition Leader and as the leader of the Labor Party, we will defend the ABC, we will defend the independence of the ABC.

And as Prime Minister, a Labor Government will defend the independence of the ABC. We always ensure that the ABC has the resources and the freedom to do its job.

And we start by saying loud and clear to this government, this $83 million cut should not go ahead.

When it comes to the next election, the Australian people will have a very, very clear choice.

They can vote for the conservatives and the continued diminution of the ABC.

And if the ABC at the next election, for the conservatives is just viewed through the prism of some free market obsession - I promise you, government, you do not understand how Australians think.

The ABC is an 85 year old institution.

It's a friend that Australians can count on through good times and in bad times.

And we say to all of those Australians who hold the ABC as an important and valuable part of their lives and in our society, we say to those people who care about the ABC: the Labor Party will stand alongside the ABC and we will win this argument and stop these cuts.

It is Reconciliation week and in Reconciliation week we celebrate and pay our respect to the traditional custodians of our continent and pay respect to elders, past, present and, indeed, emerging.

We acknowledge the hard truths of our history and we should re-dedicate ourselves to building a better and more equal future for our first Australians. 

This week is bookended by the important anniversaries of the 1967 Referendum and the 1992 Mabo decision.

Both historic victories for Aboriginal leadership and for national progress. Both victories that show, no matter what the odds or the obstacles, basic decency and Australian fairness will always win the day.  

And on that note, it’s now been a year since the gathering at Uluru and the presentation to the nation of their ‘Statement from the Heart’, their call for an Indigenous voice in the Constitution and a genuine empowered say in the decisions which govern their lives.

It may not have been the outcome that many of us expected - but neither was the verdict in Mabo.

It is not for us to sit here and say that change is too hard for the parliament to enact or for the people of Australia to support. 

It is not for us to mischaracterise the voice, the statement from the heart and call it a ‘third chamber’ of Parliament. 

Instead, it is our job to work with first Australians and all Australians to close the gap: in housing, health, jobs, justice and education and to enshrine their voice in our nation’s birth certificate.

That’s what this week, and every week, should be about.

There's nothing like a Sunday morning a at Victorian Labor conference. This is church for the true believers, great to see you all here.

Now, I'm not sure, I haven't seen the full agenda, but I imagine there's still registration for delegates, to make sure you get your POSC ballot. I'm sure there is probably a rules debate later today, it's reassuring that the more things change, some things at least stay the same.

I want to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land upon which we meet. I pay my respects their elders both past and present. 

And did you know that it was on this day, 51 years ago, that Australians voted in overwhelming numbers to change our Constitution to make sure that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples were finally counted as citizens. 

So that's a day, an anniversary which should animate us again now. Fifty-one years after Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders were first counted in our Constitution, they now deserve to be heard.

That is why we should re-pledge ourselves to ensuring we put a voice, a voice for our First Australians in our parliament and in our Constitution.

And I think in the spirit of truth-telling it is important that Victorian Labor adopts a goal too. We are long overdue to pre-select and elect an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander as a member of parliament from the Victorian branch of the Labor Party. 

I was explaining to Chloe the importance of the state conference, and it's important to me for plenty of reasons. But one of which is that after a week of sitting opposite that born to rule mob of out of touch and arrogant conservatives, it's very good to come back here, to feel your energy, to feel your passion.

As Lisa said: I am one of you. I come from the labour movement. I'm proud of coming from the labour movement and this labour movement has much to do.

Today we’ll be debating - and yesterday, issues and going through the policies and propositions. But whatever the debates, whatever the arguments and discussions we have, whatever the shades of difference that may periodically percolate up, there is one proposition which animates all of us. 

From the youngest of Young Labor members, to the oldest of life members, from members who have come here from different parts of Victoria, to the people who live here in my own electorate of Moonee Valley and Maribyrnong. 

We believe that only when Labor gets elected can we truly achieve progress and fairness for all Australians, that unites us - always has and always will.

And we need look no further than the last four years of state Labor government to show you what we can accomplish when we form governments.

Look at the level crossings being removed in the suburbs, train services restored in regional Victoria.

I see the work it has done in our schools, in our hospitals, in prioritising local manufacturing, in making sure that we have a fairer and better home to raise our kids and to grow old in. 

I see it in the national leadership on family violence, I even see it in the improved ambulance services in this state. 

Dan Andrews deserves another four years because this Labor Government has been doing a great job for Victoria.

But if we can count up the benefits of the last four years in the state, then I think we also need to total up the last five years of costs under successive Coalition conservative governments. 

You know the list of the last five years of missed opportunities for the nation.

Five years of cuts to hospitals and schools. 

Five years of increasing the cost of going to university.

Five years of reduction in the number of apprentices in this country.

We see five years of relentless union-bashing.

And the reason why this government goes after the trade union movement with such ferocity is they understand that if you weaken trade unionism in this country, you weaken wage outcomes in this country.

The reason why this government is so obsessed with trade unions is they understand that when you have relentless attacks on unions, you actually see lower wage outcomes for Australian workers - and the last five years most certainly proves that point. 

And we see what five years does in climate change, of not having a policy. Power prices are up and up and up, we're handing on a worse deal to our kids in terms of inaction on climate change.

And we see what five years of Coalition government does to the fair go in this country. 

Five years of increasing out pocket costs to go and see the doctor. 

Five years of reduction in support in aged care.

Five years of growing inequality.

We now live in a country where if you have a lot of physical assets, a lot of property, a lot of wealth, you're doing very well. But if you are someone who relies on your pay-as-you-go income of your job, you are doing worse. 

We are seeing growing inequality in this country. Unimaginable really, five years ago. 

What we see is that if you have a lot, you are doing very well. But if you are like so many of the people even in the suburbs around where this conference meets - yesterday I was in the shopping centre, talking to people who work for a living. They work every weekend, they haven't had a pay rise in years. 

We are seeing mounting inequality and that is the cost of five years of conservative government, and we cannot sugar-coat it and we cannot shirk our obligations. 

And nowhere is this five years of inaction more clear that when you look at the economic mismanagement of the nation.

My great colleagues who are here in such numbers today, we sit there and we get the painful lectures from this government who think that they are economic supermen.

Economic supermen do not double the national debt in five years.

Economic supermen do not increase the debt for every man, woman and child from $9,000 to $21,000.

Economic supermen do not defend a two-class tax system.

Economic supermen do not argue that somehow defending negative gearing, defending income-splitting in trusts, defending handing back income tax refunds to some people who do not pay income tax - they do not argue in defence of this system.

But this is what we face every day in the nation's capital.

And economic supermen do not bake-in cuts, sneaky, hidden cuts to universities, to schools, to TAFE and to hospitals.

Economic supermen do not cut hospital funding in the next three years across Australia by $715 million. 

Economic supermen do not cut $17 billion in school funding over the decade. 

Economic supermen do not reduce TAFE funding and cut apprenticeships by 140,000 over the last five years. 

And when we go through that ordeal, that schoolyard ordeal of Question Time, we will not allow the Government to lecture us when they argue that tax loopholes for the wealthy are actually a secret socialist mechanism to redistribute income to the least well off in this country. 

I believe that Australians actually want a better tax system.

They want a tax system which doesn't subsidise the high-priced medico on $500,000 being able to split income and pay less tax than the nurse on $50,000 a year. 

Australians do not want to see a tax system which finances the lucky few who own big pools of shares. And then not only do they get the dividends from the shares, the income from the shares, and pay no tax - they shouldn't in this case be allowed to get a 30 per cent loading for owning shares in this country and pay no income tax. It is not sustainable.

It is not illegal but it is simply not sustainable. 

And certainly, I do not believe Australians want to pay their taxes just so that the high rollers can pay their taxes in the Cayman Islands and other low-tax and no-tax jurisdictions. 

And when we talk about tax in this country, I am damn sure that Australians do not want to give a $17 billion tax cut to the big banks in Australia, who've been proven and demonstrated to be ripping off consumers in the most shameful, most unfair and, dare I say it, most unAustralian manner, which the banks have been doing, and caught out doing in the Royal Commission. 

I actually think that Australians want to see the scarce taxpayer dollars being re-invested in their hospitals, being reinvested in their schools, being reinvested in TAFE, being reinvested in universities. 

I think Australians want to see scarce taxpayer dollars being invested in pensioners, not the billionaires.

And I am very, very, very sure that we will defeat the Government's flawed and discredited and out of touch enterprise tax scheme.

This is the proposal, the brainchild of the investment banker. The former investment banker, once an investment banker always an investment banker, where they are ludicrously proposing to give $80 billion principally and much of which would go to mega businesses. 

I don't know about you but when I see what's happening to those Esso workers, the maintenance contractors, they are being set up in an unfair system. 

But one thing - and I will return to that in a moment -  one thing is for sure: how did it come to be in this country that 200 maintenance contractors face literally wage cuts of thousands of dollars, yet the same government presiding over the same rotten system and the same rotten corporate conduct, wants to literally hand hundreds of millions of dollars back to Esso and other large mega businesses, from taxpayers money. 

This government has got its priorities all wrong. 

So I say to the Government on their corporate tax plan: we have won the argument. It is not a matter in my mind of if the Government gives up, for the time being, its rotten corporate tax plan, it is a matter of when. 

Now you may say this sounds a trifle confident. But there is not an Australian from the top of the Torres Strait to the bottom of Tasmania, from Byron Bay on the east coast to Bunbury on the west coast, not an ordinary Australian anywhere in between, who backs these corporate tax cuts.

And I promise this conference, Labor will win the argument to defeat the corporate tax plan. But I say to Australians: that if you want to see the corporate tax plan dead, buried, and cremated, do not believe what the investment banker and those who sit opposite tell us. Because you know that if they ever control the Senate, that corporate tax plan, that rotten scheme, will be right back on the agenda. 

The only way to effectively finish off the corporate tax cuts for the big banks, for the mega businesses like Esso, is to vote Labor at the next federal election.

And as we are at Moonee Valley, the racecourse where legends go to race, I think it is appropriate to further reassure this conference and through you the people of Australia, that Labor is not just a strong opposition. 

It is not just us who finished off my opposite number's desire to increase the GST, or to have double income taxation, or indeed finished off Tony Abbott.

It is not just that we are a strong Opposition to help put the nail in the coffin of this rotten corporate tax giveaway for the big banks and mega businesses.

We provide Australians with a winning trifecta. 

Not only are we capable of reducing the national debt and protecting Australia against the uncertainty of global changes of a US-China trade conflict, of rising global debt.

Not only are we able to do that leg of the trifecta.

We are able to properly fund our schools and our hospitals. 

We are able to properly provide the opportunity for the first in a family to go to university with 200,000 extra university places over the next 10 years. 

And we are able to provide 100,000 TAFE students, both young people and adults re-training - we're paying off their upfront fees. 

We're able put back $17 billion into our schools, we're able to do all of this in education. 

We're able to make sure that we reverse the cuts to hospitals:
to unfreeze the Medicare patient rebates to make sure that our hospitals are properly funded so we can reduce waiting times for elective surgery take the pressure off of emergency departments and the staff who work in them. 
Not only are we able to promise to be better on health and Medicare, better on education, schools, TAFE, and universities.

Not only are we able to promise pensioners they don't have to work 70, in the world's oldest retirement age. Not only are we able to restore that energy supplement for our pensioners. 

We can do all of these good things, we can put social justice and a strong safety net, because we are making hard, overdue, sensible economic reforms. 

Not only are we able to do those two legs of the trifecta - the schools, the education, the health, making sure we've got a better balance sheet for the nation. 

But we're able to offer lower income tax cuts for 10 million working Australians. 

If I hear, one more time, that puffed-up imitation of a Treasurer say that under the Liberal Party they look after you with lower taxes. Well you know what? They don't. 

If you are one of 10 million Australians who earns less than $125,000 a year, it is Labor giving you back some of your hard-earned income. Because we prioritise in the tax system, working class and middle class people, not the wealthy and the mega businesses - and that's why we can afford to do these things.

When you think about that trifecta:
better at the financial management; better at looking after working class people who go to work every day; better on reversing the sneaky cuts baked-in over five years to hospitals and schools. 
We're also better, I have to say, at wages policy. This government has no wages policy except to cut wages. 

What a cheeky bunch of roosters this Government are in their last budget. 

They proposed, heroically some would say, mischievously others would say, and dishonestly I propose -  that wages are going to go up 13 per cent in the next four years. 

How can this be? 

In the last 12 months wages went up 2 percent. 

This is the government who has never seen a wage rise for workers they didn't hate. 

Never seen a workers’ representative they didn't want to blacken and demean in reputation.  

Never seen a bargaining system which they didn't want to tilt the balance in favour of the vested interests. 

Well, we have a wages policy.

The first part of our wages policy is give a fair dinkum tax cut, and the next part of our wages policy is this: we will restore penalty rates and we will change the system and put equality back into it.

And, while you're on your feet, let me also say: we're going to clean up labour hire, it will not be used to cut wages. The ABCC is gone.

And we're going to close the gender pay gap, because women should be paid the same as men in this country. 

I said I like coming to Moonee Valley.

It's not because I've backed too many winners on the track but I tell you what, I've represented racing workers at this track. And I've represented shearers and I've represented construction workers and I've represented underground miners and I've represented Esso maintenance workers.

And I know, that whatever the government says about me, about Labor, about unions, no matter the amount of abuse, no matter the amount of lies they tell, no matter the number of Royal Commissions they throw at us: I am proud to represent workers.

I am determined to make sure that if we form a government, working Australians get a place at the top table - where they belong.

So, friends, the things that matter in life, the things that we get most satisfaction out of, are the things we work hardest for. 

Our movement, our party worked hard for Medicare. We worked hard for superannuation. We worked hard to get the NDIS up and we're going to have to repair the damage these clowns have done to the NDIS.

And by the way, we're going to fight hard for the ABC - we will not let them be silenced. 

It's a pretty straightforward equation for our mighty movement, there are choices.

We choose to fight for everyday people, working class people,  middle class people. The people who want to work, who are working, or have worked in their life.  

We stand for the people who don't have the vested interests, that is the people we choose. 

We do not choose the big banks. We do not choose the mega corporations, like Esso. 

We do not choose to represent the lucky few who can opt out of the tax system and minimise their tax.

We stand for all Australians.

We stand for the kids who go to school and their parents. We stand for the young people and their parents who want an apprenticeship.

Yesterday, I'm just down the road doing the shopping at Moonee Ponds, and again as I've seen frequently on travels all over Australia, older Australians holding their CV, they're immaculately dressed. They are very well presented, they have in that plastic sleeve, that transparent plastic sleeve, their CV.

And they say: "Bill, what is wrong with this country. I go for nonsense interview, after job rejection, and I don't want to give up."

These are the people we speak for in our Party. The people who don't have the voice.

And so I have to say that it's all hard work. And our business now, our business now is by-elections.

And I have to say to people who are perhaps frustrated by the other bloke's Deidre Chambers moment:  "Oh, goodness me, imaging having five by-elections at the time of your national conference!" 

Can I say to people, just ignore it.

Of course it's not fair, but politics isn't fair when you tackle the vested interests. 

Of course it's not fair. But I say to people, in nine weeks' time, across four states, we present to the by-elections and we tell Australians our story.

And we tell Australians that only Labor can be trusted not to have the big business tax cuts. Only Labor can be trusted to call for the Banking Royal Commission.

Only Labor can be trusted to have a wages policy, a more fair-dinkum income tax cut for working Aussies.

Only Labor can be trusted to reverse the cuts to schools, and hospitals, and TAFE and universities. 

Only Labor can be trusted to stand up for the pensioners.

And we will deal with these by-elections with the same fighting spirit no matter what obstacles the Government puts in our path and after those by-elections, we will then be ready to fight the next general election, whenever he calls it. 

We have seen this economy mismanaged for the last five years.

The cost of living goes up and up and up. 
Private health insurance companies know a soft touch when they see one in the Government. 
The out-of-pocket costs of Medicare are going up and up and up.
Wages growth is flat-lining. 
And energy prices - well that's just far too hard for this government to fix. 
So this is why the Government should support a fair dinkum tax cut for 10 million working Australians.

The look of stunned surprise on a government not known for its innovation, when they heard that Labor was able to support a tax cut almost double that of the Government's on Budget Reply night, speaks volumes for the lack of imagination of this government. 

What we endure in Question Time is the Liberal Party and the National Party saying that they will offer lower taxes to Australians.

Well, if they vote against this amendment, they are wrong, wrong and wrong.

Only Labor is offering 10 million working Australians almost double the tax cut next year of this government's tax cut this year. 

Labor supports the plan on the 1st of July this year - of course we do - but next year we want to do almost double that.

And Labor can offer lower taxes for 10 million working Australians because we can pay for our promises.

Look at that Treasurer - we know he's listening, he's just pretending not to. He wishes that he had thought of our idea but he can't because they already sold the budget to the top end of town. 

We can afford to pay for our much better tax cuts for 10 million working Australians because we're not giving $80 billion away, most of which goes to the top end of town. 

Only a government truly arrogant, truly out of touch and truly in the pockets of the big banks would propose giving $17 billion dollars to the big banks. 

Only this government would offer $17 billion to the big banks while denying working Australians a tax cut of about $20 a week. 

Now we can afford to pay for our promises to give 10 million Australians lower taxes, because we've made genuine economic reform proposals which we'll put to the people:

We will reform negative gearing. 
We won't be handing out income tax refunds to people who don't pay income tax. 
We will tidy up the family trust discretionary situation where the lucky few can income split and the many cannot. 
But not only when they vote against our amendments can they no longer say that they are the party of lower taxes. 

Not only can they not say that Labor can't afford our promises because in fact, every day they go around the country saying that, the problem is Labor has made hard economic decisions and they are not prepared to give away corporate tax cuts to the banks.

They know that we have got a better tax offer, a better income tax cut for 10 million Australians. 

They know we can pay for it.

But they also know the final fact of the matter. They know that we have a better economic plan.

This Treasurer's budget on Tuesday night was so devoid of inspiration. It was a statement of residual accounts of the nation with their sneaky cuts to hospitals, and schools, and TAFE baked into it. 

Well, we can assure Australians that we have a trifecta, we have a winning trifecta for the middle and  working class of this country. 

We can afford to pay down our national debt quicker and faster because of our genuine economic reforms. 

We can afford to properly fund our schools - reverse the $17 billion worth of cuts that these Luddites are inflicting on the kids and the adults of the future.

Properly fund TAFE with 100,000 places, the upfront fees paid.

Provide 200,000 more university places.

We can do the trifecta of better income tax cuts, a better deal for schools, hospitals, TAFE and university, and pay down the national debt because we have a plan.

And I just say to the Government: If you vote against these income tax cuts tonight, we will remind you every day between now and whenever the by-elections are, and whenever the election is.

Because the next election will decide the future of this country.

It will decide what sort of society and what sort of direction we want.

It will decide if we want trickle-down economics from the representatives of big business, or fair go economics where Labor puts 10 million Australians first, second and third.

If and when we win the next election the Women's Budget Statement won't be held in the Opposition rooms - we'll make it a centerpiece of handing down the budget, as it should be. 

I think that the Government truly believes that they can con the Australian people for $10 bucks a week. 

This budget is a shocker for low and middle-income Australians but let me be very clear, it contains very little progress for Australian women and in many ways, as Tanya has outlined, it is a step back for the women of Australia. 

You know, there's sort of the early warning signs as you listen to the budget. 

You wonder how many times the current Treasurer would even refer to Australian women.

Now you might be tempted to think maybe half a dozen times, five, four, three, two times. Maybe even just once. 

He didn't even refer to the women of Australia directly.

And of course, though that is the warning sign, the symptoms for the cuts which are hidden in this sneaky, tricky budget. 

For instance, women’s refuge and homelessness services - no guarantees of funding from the first of July. 

How out of touch do you have to be to think that you can buy the conscience of the Australian people for $10 a week and make them think that they don't care about cuts to refuges and homelessness?

The difference couldn't be starker in 2018 between Labor and Liberal. 

We believe that the Australian people prioritise homelessness and women's refuge services over a meagre, miserly $10 a week. Am I right?

And then we see other changes not in the front of the speech but in the fine print.

100,000 families approximately worse off because of changes to Family Tax Benefit Part A.  279,000 families worse off because of the Child Care Subsidy.

But what I think highlights the out of touch nature of the current occupants of the Government benches is the $30 million they take from Australian women every year.

The Tampon Tax was a bad idea to begin with, and if the Howard Government, I suspect, had had as many women in their Cabinet as we would, they would never have done the tax. It's a bad law which has lasted far too long on the tax books of Australia. 

Think about what $30 million this Government will spend it on. 

They'll find $30 million to give to Foxtel, to be fair they can't find it for the ABC.

It's about the same price as a median and a half cost of a house in Point Piper. 

It just, it really does amaze me, I genuinely thought that when we saw the leadership of Tanya and Jenny Macklin and Catherine King and Chris Bowen and others saying let's scrap this tax, I genuinely thought, as this Government does on nearly everything else we say that they would copy us. 

They would then say it was their idea of course.

But on this one they are such a bunch of arrogant, out of touch blokes in generally their 50s and 60s - they have no view about this issue. And to me it just highlights in a small way the big gulf of difference between Labor and the Conservatives about the equal treatment of women in our Australia. 

I have to say, one of the things which keeps Labor honest about the equal treatment of women is the fact that nearly half of our Parliamentary Party are women. 

And if we can get another 100,000 or 150,000 votes at the next election, half plus of our caucus will be women so we need a little bit of a hand to get there.

And when you look at this Women's Budget Statement, and the leadership that we've shown for the best part of five years, there are very straightforward explanations and it starts with my Deputy Leader, Tanya Plibersek, and the job she's doing. 

We've got our Leader of Labor in the Senate, Senator Penny Wong - we are managing Australia's Foreign Affairs approach in the future. 

But it goes beyond that. We've got Catherine King in health, we've got Julie Collins in Aged Care, we have Jenny Macklin in Social Services, we have got Amanda Rishworth in Childcare and Veterans Affairs. 

They're all in the Shadow Cabinet, it'll be Question Time before I can list the accomplishments of every one of our women Parliamentary team.

But you should also be reassured that from our economic leadership team of Chris Bowen and Jim Chalmers, there are no arguments about the equal treatment of women and it's this point that I want to finish on. 

The future of this country is not preordained, sure we get a lot of luck and we are a fortunate country but the future that this country makes for itself it's the luck we drive in the way that we treat our fellow Australians. 

This Government desperately wants you to believe that for $10 a week, it's a fair budget. It most certainly is not a fair budget. 

But even more deeply than that, no vision of Australia, no guarantee of prosperity, of fairness, of the fair go all round can be complete without the equal treatment of women in our society.

When we close the gender pay gap, when domestic violence becomes a memory, when we have equal opportunities in the leadership of this nation, the boardrooms of this nation, when we ensure that women from all backgrounds, our first Australians right through to our migrants, right through to women who live in the bush. When we can be assured in this country at long last that gender is not a predictor of disadvantage or unfairness, when we are truly a nation which sees women treated equally as men. 

In the unpaid tasks at home to the paid tasks in the workplace, in every postcode in our nation when women are treated equally to men, if our movement, our mighty movement never accomplished anything else other than the equal treatment of women - we will be the richest, most successful and fairest country in the world. 

My fellow Australians.

As I listened to the Government’s fifth budget on Tuesday night, I knew immediately:

We can do better than this.

The people of Australia deserve better than this.

And a Labor Government will deliver better than this.

Better than ten years of cuts to schools and hospitals – in exchange for ten dollars a week.

Ten dollars a week.

That’s all the Liberals think it will take, for you to forgive and forget.

They think for ten dollars, you’ll forget they tried to put up your taxes last year.

For ten dollars, you won’t care about cuts to your child’s school.

For ten dollars, you’ll forgive waiting for elective surgery at Australia’s hospitals.

That for ten dollars, you won’t mind your internet’s no good and your local TAFE is closing or your daughter can’t find a place at uni.

They think if you get ten dollars a week, you won’t notice you’re losing $70 in penalty rates from your Sunday pay.

And this Prime Minister is so out of touch, he thinks if you get ten dollars a week - you’ll be fine with the banks getting a $17 billion giveaway.

The Liberals desperately want you to believe this budget is fair.

But here’s what the Prime Minister isn’t telling you: 

His $715 million cut to hospitals is still in the budget.
His $17 billion cut to schools is still in the budget.
And his $80 billion hand-out to big business, banks and multinationals is most certainly still in the budget.
This budget still cuts money from our universities – and it contains a sneaky new $270 million cut to TAFE.

The Prime Minister is still cutting $14 from pensioners every fortnight.

He’s cutting dental care for veterans, he’s cutting the ABC, yet again.

He’s keeping Medicare frozen for specialists visits, he’s even keeping the GST on tampons.

And he is still increasing the retirement age to 70.

So tonight, Australians should ask themselves.

If your family relies on any of these services, what kind of future is this Prime Minister really offering you?

My fellow Australians

I’m here to outline Labor’s plan to bring the Fair Go back into the heart of our nation.

A plan to properly fund health and education
A plan to boost your wages
And a plan for real tax cuts to help you with your family budget
It’s a plan we can afford, because we’re not going to spend $80 billion of tax expenditure on big business and the big banks.

And it’s a plan that will work, because Australia thrives when middle class and working class Australians can get ahead.

Tonight is about a Fair Go for everyone who wants the best for their kids and their future.

A Fair Go for every part of our nation - from bush to coast, from growing cities and suburbs right throughout the country.

And a Fair Go for the real forgotten people: working families, pensioners and Australians doing it tough.


After years of flat wages, rising power bills and increasing health costs under the Government: it’s a time for a fair-dinkum tax cut for middle class and working class Australians.

I’ve already said Labor will support the Government’s modest tax cuts starting 1 July this year.

Tonight, I’m pleased to announce a Labor Government will go further and do better on tax cuts for working and middle class Australians.

Tonight I’m pleased to advise, that in our first Budget, we will deliver a bigger, better and fairer tax cut for 10 million working Australians.

Almost double in fact what the Government offered on Tuesday.

This is our pledge to 10 million working Australians:

Under Labor, you will pay less income tax – because I think you are more important than multinationals, big banks and big business.

In our first term of government, a teacher earning $65,000 will be $2780 better off under Labor - an extra $928 a year.

A married couple - one serving in our defence forces earning $90,000 and the other working in aged care on $50,000 - will be $5565 better off under Labor, a combined $1855 extra each year under Labor. 

We can afford to do more to help these 10 million Australians because we’re not giving $80 billion to big business and the big four banks.

And because we’ve already made hard choices for Budget repair.

Creating a level playing field for first home buyers, by reforming negative gearing and capital gains
Cracking-down on tax minimisation by eliminating income-splitting in discretionary trusts – without affecting our farmers.
And ending unsustainable tax refunds for people who currently pay no income tax – while protecting pensioners and charities.

At the next election there will be a very clear choice on tax:

10 million Australians will pay less income tax under Labor.

We can afford to cut the taxes of 10 million Australians, without cutting services, because unlike the Liberals, we’re not wasting $80 billion on a discredited corporate tax giveaway to the top end of town.

Labor’s plans mean we can deliver a winning trifecta in government:

A genuine tax cut for middle and working class Australians
Proper funding for hospitals, schools and the safety net
And paying-back more of Australia’s national debt, faster.
There was a time, I remember, when the Liberals ran around saying a national debt of $227 billion was a ‘budget emergency’ and a national crisis.

I remember, when they were elected, they said every man, woman and child, owed $9,000.

But on Tuesday night, I don’t remember hearing the Treasurer admit that national debt has more than doubled under the Liberals.

I don’t remember him admitting that it’s now: $21,000 for every man, woman and child.

I don’t remember him admitting that next year, total interest payments on national debt will pass $18 billion.

$18 billion, every year Treasurer, that’s what you’ve achieved. 

That’s more than the Commonwealth spends on the NDIS or aged care or child care – it’s about twice as much as Australia spends on public schools. 

And the Liberals’ only strategy is to cross their fingers and hope.

This is not good enough in a time of trade conflict between America and China, in an age of soaring global debt and rising US bond markets.

No Australian government can prevent global bad news – but good governments do prepare for it.

It may not be politically fashionable, but it’s time to be responsible.

Labor’s economic reforms put us in a much stronger position to cope with international uncertainty, over the coming decade. 

We can pay down national debt, faster - because we’re not giving $80 billion away to multinationals – and because we’ve made the tough decisions to reform our taxation system. 


On Tuesday night, we discovered the Liberals are planning to radically re-write the tax rules of the nation. 

And the more Australians learn about this latest scheme, the less they like it.

How on earth can it be fair for a nurse on $40,000 to pay the same tax rate as a doctor on $200,000?

For a cleaner to pay the same tax rate as a CEO?

How can it be fair that, under this tax experiment: the doctor earns five times as much as the nurse - but his tax cut is 16 times bigger?

And today, new research has revealed that under this plan, 6 in every 10 dollars will go to the wealthiest 20 per cent of Australians.

Very quickly, this is looking like another mate’s rates tax plan from the Liberal Party.

And at a time of flat wages, growing inequality and a greater sense of unfairness in this community.

When too many jobseekers are stuck in poverty, when children go to school hungry, when women fleeing family violence can’t find safe accommodation…

…people are worried this plan is neither fair or affordable.

And, frankly, Australians are also entitled to be pretty suspicious of this whole thing.

To wonder if this ‘come and talk to me after two elections’ plan, this promise on the never-never, will ever happen.

My team and I are ready to vote for tax cuts for working families.

And we will not allow the Prime Minister to threaten to block tax cuts for 10 million Aussies, unless the Parliament writes a cheque for high income earners seven years hence. 


Every Australian understands that wages have grown by just two per cent in the past year - slower than the price of the things you need to buy, way less than your bills.

Yet this Government in its Budget is pretending that wages will increase by over 13 per cent in the next four years.

We know the Liberals haven’t the slightest idea how it will be achieved.

And when the current wages system is demonstrably not delivering for workers, they are dreaming if they think the same system will magically deliver much better outcomes.

Tonight Labor has shown we are the party of lower taxes for working and middle class families - and for more than 120 years, we have been the Party of higher wages for workers.

We’ve got a real wages policy – our wages policy: 

We’ll restore Sunday penalty rates
We’ll crack-down on wage theft and the abuse of labour hire where companies shift their permanent jobs onto labor hire jobs just to cut their pay.
We’ll get enterprise bargaining off life support, and employees and employers back to the negotiating table: for more productive workplaces, more profitable enteprises and higher wages.
And we’ll lead a new push to deliver genuine pay equity for Australian women

Labor’s wages policy is better for workers, our income tax policies are better for households – and both are better for the economy.

We’ve also got real plans for job creation.

We are committed to a tax cut for every Australian small business, for 93 percent of all businesses.

We’ll provide tax incentives for companies who invest here, in their own productivity: in new plant and equipment, new utes for tradies, new software and new technology.

Our Advanced Manufacturing Future Fund will ensure auto-firms abandoned by the current Government in South Australia and Victoria can adapt and modernize.

And our commitments:
to defence manufacturing and local procurement to agriculture, science and research to tourism and renewable energy and to a better NBN
Are all about creating the jobs and industries for Australia’s future.

In the past couple of days we’ve heard the government boast about ‘record’ funding for hospitals.

Let’s take a closer look at this record.

The cost of seeing a doctor is the highest on record.

The average wait time for elective surgery is the longest on record.

The number of hospital beds available for elderly Australians is the lowest on record.

The number of people presenting at emergency departments is the highest on record – and yet one in three patients considered ‘urgent’ don’t get seen on time. 

But in this Budget, the Government locked-in a further cut of $2.1 billion to hospitals across every part of the nation.

The health of Australians should never take a backseat to a hand-out for big business.


We’ll put more beds in emergency departments and on wards: so we can reduce the wait for people sitting in emergency rooms, worrying about a child or a loved one who’s hurt or unwell.

A fund to launch a blitz on waiting lists for elective surgery - so people can get that knee replacement to walk without pain, or have their cataracts removed so they can watch their grandchildren grow up.

And we’ll start in Tasmania, which has the worst waiting times in the country: a year for cataracts and up to 435 days for a knee replacement.

And our fund will upgrade emergency department facilities in the suburbs and the regions: including better security measures for staff and patients to handle the scourge of Ice.


If someone you love has cancer, it consumes your whole world, it’s a terrible disease.

Chloe and I have been through it with dear friends.

My own Mum battled breast cancer for many years - and as everyone who’s been part of the fight knows, there are endless scans and tests involved.

For too many people outside the big cities, either their hospital doesn’t have an MRI machine, or it’s not covered by Medicare.

So if you live in Emerald, you drive three hours to Rockhampton - or you pay hundreds of dollars out of your own pocket each time.

Cancer doesn’t care where you live, or who it strikes - and you should never have to worry about where to go, or indeed to get treatment you can afford.

Health care should just be there for you, when you need it - that’s what Medicare is all about.

So tonight, I am pleased to announce Labor will provide new MRIs to 20 hospitals and imaging centres in the regions and outer suburbs so Australians have got a better level of care.

And we’ll make sure every one of these machines is covered by Medicare.

We can properly fund our hospitals - reversing the cuts of the Government and invest new money in Medicare - because we’ve made hard choices on tax reform and because we’re not wasting billions on big business and big banks.


I believe every government has a responsibility to leave the nation better than we find it.

That’s why we will create a National Integrity Commission – a Federal ICAC - to improve accountability in politics and public life.

We’ll do the right thing by people who’ve been let down by social institutions:

National Redress for the courageous survivors of child sex abuse.
New healing initiatives for the Stolen Generations and to reduce the shocking numbers of Aboriginal kids growing up away from country and culture.
And we will ensure justice for people who’ve been ripped-off by the banks.

The banking Royal Commission has finally lifted the lid on a pathology of exploitation. 

And after years trying to stop the Royal Commission - in this Budget the Prime Minister is giving the big four banks $17 billion of taxpayer money but it is cutting money from ASIC, its cop on the beat.

This is a disgrace, it is immoral - and Labor will have no part of your actions.

The government try talking tough on this - but wagging your finger in the banks’ faces means little when you’re giving them a tax cut with your other hand.

And upping penalties will do nothing if corporate criminals with deep pockets and big legal teams know they can outspend the government.

This is why tonight I announce Labor will create a special taskforce inside the Commonwealth Department of Public Prosecutions, to see justice done.

We’ll deliver $25 million in funding to make sure public prosecutors have the resources to follow through the work of the Royal Commission.

In this fight, as always, we stand on the side of ordinary Australians.


Every budget should strive to deliver Australians a better deal today.

But I understand so many of the sacrifices people make are about tomorrow, about passing-on a better set of opportunities for their children.

But this Budget betrays the next generation -  it betrays it.

Young Australians always get a dud deal from a conservative government.

Young people; they volunteer, they give back to our community, they work to support their studies, they pay their GST, they’re funding Medicare and contributing to superannuation from their very first day on the job.

And yet in return:
the Liberals are cutting school funding closing-off university opportunities taking us backwards on climate change locking first home buyers out of the market making it harder to get an apprenticeship or go to TAFE.
Young Australians deserve better.

So tonight, I promise young Australians: Labor will create a level playing field for first home buyers,
because I don’t want us to live in a country where your only chance of owning a home, is to inherit one.

We’re serious too about tackling climate change and helping the environment:

50 per cent renewables by 2030
45 per cent cut in emissions by 2030
And zero net pollution by 2050.
We promise young Australians that we will not leave you a ruined reef and rivers and oceans choked with waste.

And we will always invest in your education: in schools, TAFE and university – because we know when you get the opportunities, Australia gets the opportunities.

When you succeed, Australia succeeds.


My twin brother Robert is here tonight - happy birthday for Saturday.

But he knows that our mother sacrificed everything for our education, and it changed our lives.

If I’m elected Prime Minister – I’ll make it my mission to ensure every Australian child gets the life-changing opportunity of a properly funded, quality education.  

Reading and writing
Maths and coding
Science and languages
Individual attention in the classroom
And protection from bullying – be it online or in the schoolyard. 
I want children to discover and fall in love with what they’re good at – and I want every public school to be able to offer music and drama and sport and camps.

This Government can announce as many education reviews as they want – everyone knows cutting school funding does not deliver better results.

That’s why Labor will put back every dollar the Liberals have cut from schools.

The Government’s cuts have hit public schools and their 2.5 million students the hardest.

It’s public schools that will benefit most when we invest and restore the extra $17 billion over the next ten years.

It's our public system, teaching 82 per cent of Australia’s poorest kids, 84 per cent of Indigenous kids and 74 per cent of kids with disabilities.

We want when it comes to schools, the very best so when it comes to schools at the next election, the choice is simple: Labor will put back $17 billion extra into the schools and the Prime Minister will put $17 billion back into the banks.


Nine out of 10 new jobs created in the next 4 years will need either a university degree or a TAFE qualification.

That’s why Labor believes in quality universities and strong public TAFEs, working side-by-side, equal partners in our nation’s future.

Yet in this Budget - the Liberals are cutting more money from university and TAFE.

In government, Labor uncapped degree places and opened the doors of university to a new generation.

Tens of thousands of students became the first person in their family to go to university - the fair go in action.

But the Liberal freeze on university funding means 10,000 fewer places are available next year.

By 2032, over 200,000 people will miss out.

Millions of families in our region want their child to go to an Australian university – they understand what it means to hold a degree from our country.

And the Government’s freeze won’t affect them, no.

It will simply lock out working-class kids and students from regional Australia.

Tonight, I am pleased to announce Labor will restore funding certainty to our universities.

And we will uncap places – providing our nation with over 200,000 more university graduates.

Under Labor, a university education is not a privilege you inherit, it’s an opportunity you earn.

We will always choose better universities opportunities over better tax breaks for the big end of town.


Labor’s plan for training is crystal clear: we will stop the slide to dodgy private providers and back public TAFE all the way.

We’ll renovate the campuses and rebuild workshops.
We ensure two out of every three as a minimum of our training dollars  goes to public TAFE
We’ll invest in programs to help older workers re-train in later.
We already know the expertise our nation will need in the next decade:

-      More workers for the NDIS and in aged care.

-      More construction workers for national infrastructure and housing

-      More programmers and technicians for the digital age

I don’t want Australia to meet these needs with skills visas, I want to train our people for these jobs.

There is no excuse for a skills vacancy to last one day longer than it takes to train an Australian to do that job.

So, tonight I am pleased to announce a Labor Government will cover all up-front fees of 100,000 TAFE places, in our first term, in high priority sectors.

From ag and engineering to disability and plumbing.

We would expect at least half of these opportunities to go to the women of Australia.

We’ll get jobs like carpenters, cooks and bricklayers off the national skills shortages list, and we will keep them off.

So instead of looking overseas or relying on temporary visas, employers will have a skilled local workforce ready to go.

And we can make this happen because we put 100,000 TAFE places, ahead of $80 billion of corporate tax giveaway.   


This budget falls hardest on the young – and the old.

The Prime Minister is still cutting $14 a fortnight from pensioners, still telling Australians to work until they’re 70 - with no idea what it means for people who’ve spent their lives doing jobs that are hard on their bodies and tough on their backs.

But I actually think one of the sneakiest tricks in this year’s budget is the fraud it has perpetrated on Australians in need of aged care.

Around 105,000 older Australians are waiting for home care packages.

But despite all the hype, the Government is offering only 14,000 places, over the next four years.

14,000 places in four years - when 20,000 people joined the waiting list in the last six months alone.

But worse still – in Question Time today - we learned that there is no new funding here - they are simply taking the money away from residential care places and putting in home care places, nothing new.

The people who raised us and cared for us and love us - deserve so much better than this money-go-round, money-go-round in aged care then cuts to their energy supplement and the world’s oldest retirement age.

If I’m Prime Minister: tackling dementia and delivering better aged care will be a national priority, backed by real resources.

Because we know that giving older Australians the security and dignity they deserve matters more than an $80 billion corporate tax cut. 


The same Liberal accounting trickery is at work in infrastructure.

Across the four years of this budget, Commonwealth investment in infrastructure projects actually falls - from $8 billion to $4.5 billion.

For the Western Sydney Rail link - there’s only money for a study, a report.

And the same goes for the train to Tullamarine - not a single dollar for construction - apparently this Government can do it for free!

Only Labor believes in nation-building, in good public transport projects like:

-      Cross River Rail in Brisbane

-      Or the Western Sydney rail line

And when we invest in tourism infrastructure in Northern Australia and Tasmania:

-      When we improve the Bass Highway in Tassie

-      When we expand the Mitchell Freeway to cut congestion in WA

-      And when we deliver long overdue upgrades to the Bruce Highway in Queensland.

When we fund and build these projects

-      We’ll prioritize Australian made steel

-      We’ll prioritize local workers

-      And we’ll require that one of every ten people employed, is an Australian apprentice.

And Labor can put real dollars into Australian infrastructure because we are not going to give $80 billion to multinationals and the big corporations.

So in conclusion, my fellow Australians,

Here’s what the Fair Go means under a Labor Government:

-      Rescuing hospitals and re-investing in Medicare

-      Proper funding for schools, TAFE and University.

And a bigger, better income tax cuts for 10 million working Australians.

This is our plan and this is my challenge to the Prime Minister.

If you think that your budget is fair, if you think that your sneaky cuts can survive scrutiny, put it to the test.

Put it to the test in Caboolture, put it to the test in Burnie, put it to the test in Fremantle and in Perth. 

I will put my better, fairer, bigger income tax cut against yours.

I'll put my plans to rescue hospitals and fund Medicare against your cuts, I'll put my plans to properly fund schools against your cuts.

And I'll but my plan to boost wages against your plan to cut penalty rates.

And I'll put my plans for 100,000 TAFE places against your cuts to apprenticeships and training. 

And I'll fight for the ABC against your cuts.

And house by house, street by street and suburb by suburb my team and I will make this a referendum on your $80 billion corporate tax giveaway to multinationals, big business and the big banks.

This nation needs a leader that gets it.

It needs a party with a plan for the future and it needs a Government that will deliver a fair go for all Australians.

That is what we deliver, that is our promise. 

It is a familiar season for Australians. We know the rhythms and rituals of the next week: there are the tailored leaks, the careful drops, the interviews, the speculation. 

And then of course the contributions from Michael McCormack.

But of course, next Tuesday night no doubt and Wednesday morning, I want to predict there will be the usual near-universal acclaim from some of our media. 

The front pages about Santa and Superman, pick your favourite digitally altered image of your current Marvel or Avenger character and superimpose Mr Turnbull and Mr Morrison's face on them.

There will be forests chopped down to fill the columns of praise of the clever politics, the cunning plans and the inevitable predictions of Labor's demise.

But I think especially this year – when conveniently, there’s been a marvellous surge in revenue, a tremendous improvement to the bottom line, just in the nick of time for a desperate pre-election cash-splash. 

But I also predict that as the breakfast TV shows pack up in the days after and leave the lawns of Parliament for yet again the end of another festival of Budget, the real story will emerge.

The bits designed to be hidden will come to the surface, the substance will come into focus.

That’s what happened in 2014, that's what has happened in every budget since.

We've seen the movie four times now from this Government, we know how it ends.

The nearest sensation I can explain it to, it's a bit like a late night trip to McDonalds. Everything looks so good, goes down well at the time, but soon enough you're experiencing buyer’s remorse. 

Because what really counts, in all seriousness, is not what the Budget does for the job security of a Prime Minister and a Treasurer, or the electoral prospects of a Government.

It’s what a Budget does for your family and for our nation.

Does it invest in your child’s school, your daughter’s university, your son’s TAFE?
Does it guarantee that you can afford to see a doctor when your loved needs to?
Does it help with your cost of living: will it reduce your power bills, will it cap increases in private health insurance premiums?
Will it boost wages, so that you can earn fair reward for hard work?
Does it actually invest in better aged care and stronger pensions – so that older Australians can receive some of the respect and support they so richly deserve.
Will it in fact reduce the deficit, pay down the debt – or have the indeed the Government abandoned the economic fundamental test they used to set for every Labor budget?
Perhaps I can put it another way even more directly, does the Budget deliver on what good government should do: fulfil the generational contract.

You all understand the generational contract in this room and Australians understand it wherever they live in this marvellous country. 

You understand that as families and parents that DNA hard wired into every parent making sacrifices, working hard to ensure that we can pass on a better set of circumstances than that which we inherited from our parents.

I remember clearly, my Mum took my brother and I on a total of three holidays until we left school, my parents lived modestly in a Californian bungalow, in Melbourne's south eastern suburbs. 

They made these decisions to go without in order that my twin brother and I could receive a good education.

I have no doubt that that DNA decision, that sacrifice, changed my life. It is a key reason I even have the opportunity and privilege to stand before you today.

But I don't think I'm unique, I meet so many people living the same values: parents going without, to provide for their children.

But in 2018 my fellow Australians that I hear from in my town hall meetings – from the Brothers Leagues Club in Cairns the week before last, to Wanneroo Tavern in Perth's rapidly growing northern suburbs, the week before that.

Too many of our fellow Australians feel that their return on the hard work they do is diminishing.

Our fellow Australians are resilient people, they don’t want charity, they don't expect a free ride - they don't expect something for nothing. 

But they do feel all too often that when it comes to Australian politics and the big economic decisions, that there is a fix in. That the game is rigged in favour of a few loud and powerful interests.

And when they hear politicians boast about job creation it doesn’t automatically transfer into the lives that they are living. 

Tell it to the 730,000 Australians who are unemployed.

Tell it to the 1.1 million plus Australians who every month record they want to work more hours, but can’t find hours.

Tell it to the hundreds of thousands of people stranded on the disability support pension.

Tell it to Australian's who are working two jobs with no sick leave or job security, just to pay the bills.

People in Australia are thoroughly dissatisfied with unfettered privatisation, with the 'leave-it-to-the market’, genuflections to big-business as usual:

Australians understand that corporate profits are soaring but wages are stagnant
The big private health insurers are turning their industry into a con: pushing up premiums and adding exclusions to policy in the fine print – charging people more money for less coverage.
The power companies that are gouging businesses and families alike.
Aged care providers charging massive fees, demanding huge bonds – enticing people into complex contracts at the same time as their staff are underpaid, undertrained and the residents suffer abuse and neglect. 

And I also understand keenly that part of the dissatisfaction with politics as usual is the name-calling on the news, some of our antics in Parliament. And all sides contribute to that.            

But I actually think there is a bigger challenge it is the perception that Government isn’t on the people’s side anymore. 

Companies pushing staff into casual employment, relying on labour hire to replace jobs once considered intrinsic to businesses reason to be.

Sending jobs offshore, depressing wages – and the Government is following their lead, moving literally thousands of Centrelink and now NDIS call centre workers onto labour hire contracts and lower wages.

At the same time in the past five years, the tax on workers has grown 25 times more than the tax on companies – eight times faster.

Let me repeat this remarkable statistic which confirms what millions of Australians intuitively understand already.

In the past five years of Coalition Government, the tax on workers has grown 25 times more than the tax on companies and eight times faster.

It’s easier now to import skills through the visa system than train an Aussie – yet TAFE is getting cut, reinforcing this problem.

And when whole suburbs have been short-changed on decent internet – because the Government decided to spend billions of dollars on 19th Century copper instead of 21st Century fibre.

Australians know that in too many ways to count, the fair go as we know it is under threat, that the middle class is feeling the pressure and it's harder than ever if you're income reliant to climb out of the working class into the prospects which we used to take for granted.

So today in line with this, I'd like to outline four things that next week’s Budget must do to pass the fairness test:

Remove the cuts to Medicare and restore and reverse the $715 million cuts to hospitals.
Put back the $17 billion that the Government has cut from schools.
Give up on the so-called zombie cuts that hurt families and pensioners – cuts which have no prospect of ever passing the Parliament but which the Government fictitiously thinks, in a zombie like state is to pretend like they can balance their books. Cuts like axing the Energy Supplement and increasing the pension age to 70. And -
Dump the multi-billion dollar giveaway to multinationals and the big banks.
On test number four, let’s get something straight – every year that this giveaway sits on the Government's books, it gets more expensive.

Because some of the biggest cuts are in the out years but of course as we get towards the out years these cuts just keep increasing.

So let me put it this way, it’s gone from $50 billion, when it was bolted on to the 2016 budget.

To $65 billion in last year’s budget, on Tuesday night it will be - in this year’s budget, on Tuesday night, $80 billion in corporate tax handout.

Put another way, last year, courtesy of the Coalition Government the four big banks could expect $13 billion in taxpayer funded corporate handouts.

This year it's estimated to be more like $17 billion taxpayer dollars to Australia's big banks.

$17 billion, of forgone taxpayer income for institutions that are being exposed, indeed as we speak, for shocking, predatory, exploitation of Australians.

There is no room for hedging here, no half measures.

If the government wants to deliver a fair budget – they have to fundamentally change their priorities and their policies.

Health care, school cuts, the zombie measures hurting the least well off, and of course the multi-billion dollar corporate tax giveaway.

Now I have to say though, in fairness to the Government, this kind of backflip, this strategic retreat, this junking of dumb ideas in the face of a united and determined Labor Opposition – it would hardly be a dramatic change of pace.

They have well and truly got form.

Last week, the Treasurer finally admitted it was wrong to use people with disability as budget blackmail to try and raise taxes on over seven million Australians who earn less than $87,000 a year.

To be fair though, he wanted credit for this belated realisation.

I think he genuinely wanted a round of applause, he wanted a round of applause for introducing it and he wanted a round of applause for retreating from it.

For abandoning his own unfair plan.

Now the Treasurer didn't start this trend to be fair.

We saw the same thing when the Government folded on their bigger and broader GST.

Families were actually meant to be pleased that the Government had decided not to increase their cost of living.

Or when indeed Prime Minister caved on his remarkable 48 hour plan to allow the states to levy their own income tax, workers were meant to be grateful that they wouldn’t be paying two sets of tax on their income every year, even though some Australians pay no tax on any of their income in a year.

But we do see this similar display I have to say with the Banking Royal Commission.

I do marvel at watching the various Ministers try and claim credit for the Royal Commission - it was all a cunning plan we just hadn't worked it out.

I have to say a diligent staff member has observed to me that this Royal Commission was opposed by Liberal and National Party Ministers on the public record 263 times that we've found so far.

Why is it that this Government always wants a medal from the Australian people when they stop poking Australian people in the eye.

It is a gut-punching form of chutzpah.

But having said that it is within character I hope for the sake of the nation, they surrender their $80 billion taxpayer funded corporate giveaway.

I hope, for Australia’s sake, that they drop the centrepiece of the last election campaign and their last two budgets.

I'm sure when they do as usual, they’ll blame Labor, they’ll blame the unions, they'll blame me, they’ll blame a flaw in the sales pitch, they'll blame the weather, they'll blame an an error in tactics.

But the truth is, the real problem is it is their values that keep driving them to make bad decisions, it is the priorities which keep pointing them in the wrong direction.

Because a Budget isn’t a statement about the nation’s books alone, it is a statement of a Government’s values.

Line by line: what you care about, where you stand, whose side you’re on - and this commitment is measured in real and important taxpayer dollars.

So if the Government choose not to reverse their cuts to schools, to hospitals, to pensioners and families.

If they don’t pass these basic tests, unarguable tests of fairness, everyone understands why.

Everyone will know that this is a Government still cutting money from the services which fair dinkum Australians rely on.

Because they would rather spend the money on their one point economic plan – a multi-billion dollar hand-out to the top end of town.

Now we don’t know how the Government intends to pay for their corporate tax giveaway. We don’t know where the money is coming from – they still haven’t told us mere mortals.

We don’t know whether they’re going to try and put up taxes on working people, although the last five years would indicate that that's a distinct possibility.

We don't know if they’re going to let the debt blow-out further, although the last five years would make you think that's a distinct possibility.

Or whether they’re going to cut essential services, which in the last five years would maybe convince it's a distinct possibility.

Or they may do all three - which is a very distinct possibility.

But we do know about these corporate tax cuts is that up to 60 cents in every one of these dollars will go straight overseas: to foreign shareholders and multinational CEOs.

We do know that the biggest beneficiaries of this largesse have already admitted – openly, unapologetically - that they’re not going to use this to employ more staff, and certainly don't ask them to pass it on in the form of increased wages for their workers.

And we do know there's something like $17 billion will go directly to the big banks –the biggest reverse political donation in Australian political history.

Now the Government have been stamping their foot, shaking their finger and saying that they’re frightfully disappointed at the actions of these banking institutions.

But it is skin deep disappointment, isn't it.

Because what else can you interpret it to be other than just going through the motions, when next Tuesday night they’re going to write them a cheque for $17 billion.

The people have worked out that the Government's not fair dinkum.

It is bad politics, that goes without saying.

I mean you can picture the Malcolm Turnbull poster at the next election.

It will be a stern visage, but you can say: ‘vote for me and I’ll give the banks a $17 billion tax hand out”.

I look forward to the jingle.

But more than the politics, more than any of that necessary political tactical debate – it is immoral to give the big banks of Australia a $17 billion tax hand out, especially in light of the shocking and predatory revelations of the Royal Commission that the Turnbull Government never wanted to see exposed.

I put myself in the shoes of those victims of these financial institutions, the ones who have been ripped off, the ones who have been exploited, driven to the brink - farmers, small businesses, individuals, retirees.

I've had a chance to talk to these people in the last two years as Labor campaigned for this Royal Commission, the whistle-blowers, the people who have lost their careers, the families, the farmers forced off the land, the people forced to the brink of psychological and emotional distress.

People who have lost not just the money but their families, their dreams of a comfortable retirement.

But they have all had a limitless determination to see justice done.

It is bad enough that the Prime Minister can’t say sorry for standing in the way of this Royal Commission for the best part of two years - denying people’s hurt, delaying their justice, merely excusing his own conduct on the basis that he made a political mistake.

No, it was just a mistake.

But to tell these people now that the Government's one line economic plan is to compensate these perpetrators - it is scandalous.

To rewarding these, literally, banking grave robbers is a sick joke.

I challenge the Prime Minister and the Treasurer in this budget on Tuesday night, have the courage and the character to look the victims of these banking scandals in the eye and explain to them why they need $17 billion of tax reduction after all that has happened.

Now for weeks, the Government in its latest strategy of manoeuvre and cunning and tactical cleverness have been telling people that the next election will be fought on the most important question of ‘tax’. 

You bet it will be.

But until and unless my opposite number takes his multi-billion dollar monstrosity of policy, his reverse donation to the top end of town out of next week’s budget - his next election will be a referendum on whether this nation, after three years of Parliamentary debate, wants to pass an $80 billion tax reduction to big business of which no less than $17 billion will go to the big banks.

This nation cannot afford to waste any more time after this term of Parliament, on this question of corporate tax cuts.

The people deserve the right to be consulted, to pass their verdict and we promise to submit this issue for the verdict of the Australian people at the next election.

It is a defining issue, and it is a clear-cut question which goes much than even just the policy to the values, it goes to what sort of country we want to be. 

Are we a country who believes that when you reward the top end of town, the multinationals and the big banks, that somewhat miraculously this benefit will fall from the table and enrich the working and middle-class Australians lives.

There is another proposition, which if you offer support through growth, through proper measures, through looking after the middle class and working class, that this nation can indeed ensure that its benefits are more fairly shared amongst all of Australians.

It's a very simple choice. Every dollar that my opposite number allocates to big banks and to multinationals is a dollar less available for schools and hospitals.

It's a very simple choice, but it is a profound choice for our fellow Australians: 

Do you want better hospitals and schools - or richer banks?
Do you want to give a hand-out to multinationals - or invest in Medicare?
Do you want to boost the profits of big Private Health Insurers -  or have better public transport in our cities and roads in our regions?
Do you want to give a bigger cheque to power companies who have been gouging you – or do you want more renewables and more investment and more real action on climate change?
Do you want big business as usual – or do we want to be a fairer for inclusive society?
When I became Leader of the Labor Party nearly five years ago, I said that Labor was at its best when Australians could say, with certainty, and understand, what Labor stood for.

After five years I’m confident Australians know not just what Labor is against – but more importantly, what we are for.

Our plans and policies are about building an economy that works for everyday Australians.

That starts with quality education - from the early years, to school, to TAFE and university.

It means putting public TAFE back in the centre of a vocational education system.

It means renovating TAFE campuses in the regions and revitalising apprenticeships.

Because our country shouldn’t be importing skills and outsourcing jobs with temporary work visas – pushing  Australians to the back of the queue – we should be building the capacity of our future workforce.

We’ll create an Australian Manufacturing Future Fund, so our auto-industry and component makers can re-tool and adapt, so our clever, competitive advanced manufacturing sector can boost its productivity and innovation.

We’ll deliver an Australian Investment Guarantee, rewarding businesses that invest in new plant and machinery, in software and assets, in their own modernisation and productivity.

But it won’t just be about education and people. It will be about the women of Australia.

We will make equality for the women an important key national economic program. It is a national priority.

We'll do it in everything from working to closing the gender pay gap, law reform to tackle family violence and - just yesterday, we even announced we’ll be removing the GST from tampons and sanitary products.

Let’s face it, if blokes needed to use tampons, or there were more women perhaps in the Howard Cabinet, I don't think the GST would never have been applied in the first place.

When it comes to infrastructure - we will fund and build new public transport, extend our airports, build new roads and new ports to free-up our suburbs, connect-up our regions to lift productivity nation-wide.

And – of course – we will end the cuts and the freezes in our health system, so once again you can say in this country that it’s your Medicare card, not your credit card that guarantees you access to quality health care.

My team and I haven't gone for a small target approach. 

We've worked to put forward a comprehensive and positive agenda out of respect for the Australian people and their democratic right to have an informed choice. 

Our argument at the next election is not simply we are not them - as compelling as that argument is. 

It will be about showing voters and the citizens respect. 

We can make it clear how we pay for our promises and how we intend to pay the debt.

We are offering the most comprehensive tax reform agenda of any opposition in generations. 

A fairer, sustainable tax system delivering a strong, sustainable budget with one clear set of rules for everybody:

Reforming negative gearing and capital gains - levelling the playing field for first home buyers. 
Ending income splitting through discretionary trusts.
Winding in unsustainable, unaffordable concessions in high-end superannuation 
Capping blow out deductions - like spending $1 million on managing the tax affairs so you can put all your taxable income to zero. 
Most recently, we've announced our plan to eliminate cash refunds to people who pay no income tax in the first place. 

My whole economic team, led by Chris Bowen, supported by Jim Chalmers and Andrew Leigh, have worked hard on the design of these changes. 

Our negative gearing is grandfathered - which means if you currently have negative gearing, you're not affected - existing investors are not affected.

And it will still apply, if we are elected, to new properties to encourage construction jobs. 

Farmers for example will be exempt from our changes to trusts because we understand that their income is both seasonal and unpredictable. 

Pensioners and part-pensioners will be protected from our changes to dividend imputation.

Universities and charities will be exempt. 

The guiding principle for all of our reforms has been eliminating an unsustainable two-class tax system. 

Why is it the case in this country that the more money you have, the more optional paying tax in this country becomes?

That is not a benefit extended to all.

And of course, when you have a government which spends money on schools or hospitals, training or infrastructure, this is a dividend - there is a dividend on from this investment in our fellow Australians. 

There is a return on every taxpayer dollar for the individual, for the families, for the community, for our country. 

When a budget loses revenue through tax loopholes, through the exploitation of unsustainable concessions and deductions, through to very careful gaming which only the very, very well-off can afford to take full utilisation - it is working people who pay a price - higher taxes, high debt, or indeed, cuts to essential services. 

But let's be clear: the tax concessions that we are targeting, the tax subsidies which we will no longer maintain, these measures, these subsidies, these concessions, they are not as some in the government would have you believe, equity measures.

Negative gearing is not a tool for the redistribution of income from the very well-off to the less well-off. 

It is not the product of the latter-day Robin Hood. 

These measures are not about redistributing the national income in the interest of the less well-off. 

Quite the opposite. 

We don't see low income people living lifting themselves out of poverty by negatively gearing a significant property portfolio. 

It is interesting that in the past couple of years, the number of investors who own at least five properties grew at triple the rate of those who own just one. 

Nurses and teachers and police officers are not paying their accountants hundreds of thousands of dollars or using your discretionary trusts to minimise their tax. 

And please, in this informed audience, let us resolve not to accept the fiction of taxable income - that somehow after someone has deducted all of the deductions they can and their taxable income at the end of this marvellous process of tax all tax optimisation, that at the end of that process, that you judge the person's income.

Judge it at the start.

So in conclusion, at budget-time, there will be lots of speeches, there will be plenty of commentary, there will be no shortage of words. 

But to me, it's the numbers that tells the story of the nation, and of our values. 

It is these numbers that are the real test - here is the test next Tuesday night:

Are the cuts to schools still there?
Are the cuts to hospitals and the freezes to Medicare still on the books?
Are they still pushing the retirement age of 70?
Are they cutting the energy supplement from any pensioners after September 2016?
And are those still subsidising multinationals and big banks through an unaffordable, unjustified massive $80 billion corporate tax giveaway.
If those numbers are there, then this 5th budget will just be like the previous four: the wrong decisions, informed by the wrong priorities, driven by the wrong values. 

For our part, Labor will approach this budget in the same way we have approached the last four.

We'll support what we think is good for the nation and vote for measures that we think are right.

But no amount of pressure from vested interests or their allies in the media, will make us wave through cuts that hurt those who can least afford it. 
We will not look the other way while Medicare remains frozen and the hospitals go without.
We will not mortgage Australia's  future but stripping money out of schools, TAFE, university and apprenticeships.
Imagine if we had listened to every budget-booster, columnist and editorial in those heady days after the 2017 Budget where the increase on the Medicare levy for people under $87,000 was a marvellous idea. 

We will not be intimidated if they're doing over middle and working class people just in the sheer hoopla of the days after the budget.

I'm proud that my team and I are not just strong opposition but in this term, we are a genuine alternative.

We believe the government does have a job to do in Australian society - it has a clear and profound responsibility:

To pay for our promises.
To deliver quality education for all. 
To properly fund our hospitals, our Medicare and our aged-care. 
To train Australians for good jobs with good wages.
To fairly reward the contribution of working and middle class Australians 
And to that generational contract for those who follow us - to leave the place better than we found.
This is our vision: a fair go for all Australians.

An economy that works in the interests of all Australians.

Not just next week, next poll, next election but for the next decade and the next generation.

But the Prime Minister today has made it very clear that he will take his corporate tax cuts to the next election.

And whilst I do not agree with his position, I do acknowledge that he answered the question.

And I just want to advise him and his representatives in this government, that we are up for the next election being a  referendum on whether this nation should give $65 billion to large corporations or whether we should be a nation who prioritises the needs of middle class and working class Australians.

We will have this fight on the Turnbull Government's corporate tax cuts.

And at the next election, there will be two very different visions offered for the future of this nation, to the people of Australia.

The Government's agenda, very clear: 

$65 Billion handouts to multinationals, to big banks, to large corporations
And raising the taxes for working Australians who earn less than $87,000 a year
Labor, by contrast, will offer the following vision to the Australian people:

Lower taxes for families
Higher wages for workers
And better schools and hospitals for all Australians
We stand for the fair go.

That's the choice, that's the contest and the contest starts now.

And let me make something very clear: Labor will go to the next election promising to repeal the Prime Minister's multi-billion dollar handout for big business if it passes the Senate.

And let us not hear anymore from the Government about being the party for lower taxes, because this government actually has two pieces of tax legislation in the Senate.

They have got their tax giveaway for their friends at the top end of town.

But they have another piece of legislation: a tax increase for nurses and teachers, police officers, childcare workers and mechanics.

A tax increase of $300 for someone who earns $60,000.

A tax increase of $350 for someone earning $70,000.

This Prime Minister wants to punish working Australians, Labor chooses to protect them. Politics is all about priorities.

The Government wants to sign a cheque for $65 billion out of the nation's ATM - and it has to be paid for. 

This government loves to misquote Labor.

Whenever Labor has supported changes in corporate taxation, we have replaced that revenue with other revenue.

To hear this Prime Minister cherry-pick our arguments: dishonest then, dishonest now, dishonest into the future.

The reality is this government has pretended to the Australian people that they can take $65 billion out of the budget and there is nothing to be explained. It doesn't explain where the money is coming from.

But we have a problem in this country.

Our hospitals are still too crowded, waiting lists for surgery are too long, schools are not appropriately funded, TAFEs are still closing, child care is still too expensive and too hard to find.

Cities and suburbs and regions are crying out for new roads and ports, rail and bridges and airports and a first-rate NBN.

Older Australians still waiting in greater numbers than ever for aged care packages.

And the wages for Australian workers are simply too low.

But what will we have at the end of Mr Turnbull's $65 billion tax giveaway? Nothing.

The money that we could be using to repair the budget and pay down the debt, the money we could be using to invest in the future of our economy, in the luck we make ourselves, in our people, our education, our skills, training and apprenticeships.

You do not deliver a prosperous middle-class and working-class in this country by throwing money at big banks, you do it by investing in new industries, skilling up workers, helping adults retrain for the jobs of the future.

And you do it by supporting decent wages, including penalty rates for people who'll be working on the upcoming public holidays this Easter.

This is the Labor way: new industries, skilled workers, productive businesses, and higher wages.

And Labor has a strategy for growth. We have proposed the Australian Investment Guarantee.

We will support businesses to immediately deduct an extra 20 per cent of their investments in eligible, depreciable assets.

This means trucks and utes for tradies, machinery plant and equipment for productivity-boosting innovation and industry and also depreciable and tangible assets for purchases like software upgrades.

We want to actually invest scarce tax payer money on the direct promise that companies invest back in productivity. This Government wants to giveaway $65 billion with no promises and no strings attached.

We are happy to help companies invest in job creation, productivity growth and better wages - but we want to see something for the tax-payer support they receive.

And then we look at what this Government wants to do with $65 billion.

Now, up to 60 cents in every one of this Government's $65 billion giveaway will go straight overseas.

Now, it wasn't a socialist think tank that gave us that, it wasn't the Australia Institute, it wasn't the Cuban Institute, or the North Korean Institute - it was analysis from the former Chief Economist at Goldman Sachs.

Sixty cents in every dollar, $39 billion tax-payer dollars straight to multinational profits and overseas.

I understand the Prime Minister's always been a fan of sending money offshore but I don't want him to do it with taxpayer dollars.

This is not a plan for Australian jobs or Australian wages - this is corporate welfare for multinational firms, this is foreign aid for foreign multinationals.

And of course, our friends at the big Australian banks never go missing when Mr Turnbull is in town.

Some of the Australian businesses who will receive a benefit from this $65 billion of Australian taxpayer support will be the banks: Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, ANZ and NAB.

This tax giveaway is a multi-billion dollar bankers’ bonus.

The Royal Commission which this Prime Minister and Treasurer mocked, attacked, ridiculed, sneered at and then with their fingernail marks on the concrete were dragged to having, this Royal Commission into the banks every day reveals worse and worse conduct.

What we have seen already is simply shocking - and what's the Government's response? They want to give the same banks, they want to give them billions of dollars of taxpayer money. Money which could be spent looking after the hospitals and schools of Australia. 

And there is nothing in this proposal guaranteeing wage increases for working Australians, nothing.

On the Government's own numbers this $65 billion corporate largesse from the taxpayers of Australia to the big end of town is predicted to produce a 1.1 percent increase in wages growth in 20 years’ time. 

Two dollars a working day, ten dollars a week, in 2037.

Has anyone who's dreamed up this corporate tax giveaway had a serious conversation with working Australians and the family budgets that they are dealing with every week?

How on earth could this government dream up a scheme which gives away so much money to large companies for so little result?

And indeed, to be fair to big business they haven't even bothered pretending that they're going to do anything for the Government in return.

I mean I knew that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister weren't bright but I never imagined that they were so out-of-touch that even their friends are not going to do anything for the $65 billion. 

Never has a conservative government worked so hard to spend so much money, for so little result.

And of course it's not just Labor saying this.

What we saw to justify the case, this clarion economic strategy of this beleaguered, one-trick pony government, is that we saw the Government are running around with a two-line letter from big business:

‘Give us the money and we promise we will seriously consider thinking about an investigation into an inquiry into the potential to do something about wages, one day.’

This is only one step up from those email scams - not as many typos, but the pitch is the same, you know: 

‘Dear so and so, congratulations and hello my very good friend! Your long-lost relative, the Prince of Nigeria has died and left you everything! Just send the money ASAP, and then we’ll release the funds.’

But it gets worse today! 

We learned about this piece of corporate spam, that the ‘Commitment to the Senate’ wasn’t the original, it was the sequel. It was the Executive Director’s Cut. 

I know the Prime Minister drives a hard bargain: 

‘Hello Percy, hello Murgatroyd, I need you to back me up here.’

'Oh yes what do you want?'

'Commitment to jobs?'

'No, you can’t have that!'

'Commitment to wages?'

'No no you can't have that!'

'Commitment to not offshoring?'

'Absolutely not!'

'We want you to commit to pay tax.'

'Oh my goodness old chap! What is going on here?'

I tell you one thing, we want to be internationally competitive - but not on corporate tax loopholes. 

So I wanted to take this opportunity to wish all 70 visiting teams and their supporters from around the world an enjoyable stay in a beautiful part of Australia. And I want to wish the 473 members of the Australian squad every success, whether it’s on the track, in the pool, on the beach, at the velodrome or, of course, on the netball court.

The Member for Lalor, who would wear that Diamonds Scarf in here every day if she could, told me a great statistic about this year’s games.

This is the twenty-first Commonwealth Games - but it is the first Commonwealth Games where half the medals up for grabs can be won by women athletes. And it is great news that the Gold Coast games will include the largest Para-Sport program in Commonwealth history.

As ever, the smooth running of this event will depend on thousands of cheerful volunteers and I want to thank them in advance, because they are outstanding ambassadors for our nation.


Australian sport needs a good story at the moment.

And I know from the moment Sally Pearson and Kurt Fearnley lead the Australian team into the stadium to start the games, our whole country will be inspired and uplifted.

Good luck and go Aussies.

