SHORTEN: Good evening everybody. Well I hope that right across Australia you’ll find tonight’s debate informative, I’ll certainly put forward Labor’s positive plans and I look forward to a great discussion. And also, I must acknowledge that this is the first time ever there has been a debate in Western Australia, a leader’s debate so congratulations to the West, you’ve scored the first debate. I’m optimistic about Australia’s future. I believe that when we invest in people, that when we aim to be our best, there’s no holding our country back. I lead a united and stable team, we’ve been working on the policies to make sure that Australia’s future is a fantastic one. I want Australia to have the world’s best health system. I want to make sure that we build a stronger Medicare, that our hospitals are properly funded, that people don't spend too long on waiting lists to get the surgery they need, they get help with their out-of-pocket costs when they're battling cancer. I want three million pensioners to be able to access dental care. I want the world's best education system, three and four-year olds getting support going to kindy, best schools, best TAFEs, best uni’s. I want to make sure we're training our people for the future. We can afford to pay for these because we've made the hard decisions going forward. We acknowledge that some people won't be happy, but what we want to do is stop providing tax loopholes to the top end of town and those already very well off. Instead we prioritise childcare costs, the pensioners, hospitals and schools. Also, what we want to do is start tackling the big issues which are affecting everyday Australians. Cost of living, everything going up in Australia except people's wages. We've got a plan to help cap private health insurance fees, to help with that million Australian households with their childcare costs. We want to get wages moving again and start restoring some of those penalty rates which were arbitrarily cut. And we want to take real action on climate change. None of this can happen if we keep the same Government in power. They've been in charge for six years and life hasn't got better for a lot of people. In fact, for many people they're spending their household savings and going backwards. This is a Government who's had three prime ministers, a lot of chaos and turmoil and we've seen funding to schools and hospitals cut. We've lost lots of apprenticeships in this time. There's a million Australians doing two jobs and there's a million Australians who are underemployed. This economy is not working in the interests of working people. We believe it is time for a change. Tonight, we're going to outline our exciting policies to put middle and working class people back on top, from child care to looking after the pensioners and the schools and the hospitals. We understand that this country works best when everyone gets a fair go and we're not going to be deterred from taking action on climate change. We shouldn't be the generation who hands on a worse environment to our kids just because the current Government wasn't able to get its act together on energy prices or climate change. I look forward to a really good discussion tonight. I look forward to hearing people's questions. Labor understands that when you get a fair go in this country, then everyone benefits.
QUESTION: Thank you Mr Shorten and thank you Mr Morrison. So, indeed let's get that discussion underway. To our first question now tonight and over to our moderators Mike Riley and Lanai Scarr.  Just a reminder the first question, after the first question is asked, both leaders have one minute to speak before open debate begins. Our first topic tonight is on the subject of trust. Mark Riley, it's over to you.
QUESTION: Thanks Basil. Trust, gentlemen, a small word with a very large impact on voters minds. This is to Mr Morrison first. This is the fourth election in a row where voters will face a prime minister in you that they didn't see lead the Government at the previous election. That's part of the reason why trust in the system and faith in the system is breaking down. Voters see you politicians making this about yourselves and losing sight of them. So, my question to you is: why should voters trust you to do what you say you will do and what will you do to restore faith and trust in the political system?
QUESTION: Right Mr. Shorten, trust. You were one of the pivotal figures obviously, the so-called ‘faceless men’ who was involved the toppling of Kevin Rudd and the rise of Julia Gillard and then the toppling of Julia Gillard and the reinstallation of Kevin Rudd. A kingmaker if you like, who now wants to be king. Why should voters trust you and what will you do to restore trust and faith among voters in the political system?
SHORTEN: Thanks Mark. It is fair to say that trust in politicians is at an all-time low and I think all of us share some responsibility for that. The question is how we improve peoples trust. The big problem I see, is that most voters I talk to think that too much of politics is about people and personalities and not enough about the people of Australia, it’s too much about the politicians. So what we're going to do is rebuild trust institutions by establishing a national anti-corruption commission, to that's an institutional down-payment. The Commonwealth of politicians shouldn't be above these anti-corruption commissions. We're also trusting the Australian people with our policies. See, to be trusted, we want to trust people, so we put all our policies out there. We've been upfront about what we want to do and how we're going to pay for it. I think the real challenge of trust also comes to how united your party is. What people said to me over the summer break is; ‘We just want to vote for one prime minister for the next three years’. My Party is united, I'm concerned that the Government's deals with Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson means your vote Morrison you get Palmer and Hanson.
QUESTION: I can reveal some figures tonight from the hardworking people at the Australian Electoral Commission. As of 4pm today, 110,000 voters had voted in pre-polling today. That's almost double the amount that voted on the first day in the 2016 election. Why don't people want to wait another three weeks to hear from you?
QUESTION: Well Mr Shorten we've commuted seamlessly there from a question about why people are voting early, to allegations against you. What have you got to say?
SHORTEN: Well I think people are voting early because they want a change of government. I mean how many times do you give the Liberals a chance, before you say the voting Liberal is the triumph of hope over experience? I mean let's be candid; this economy is not working in the interests of everyday people. So I think people are keen to vote early. I don't think it is just a question of convenience. I think there is a mood for change in Australia. People want to see us take real action on climate change for example. People want to see us look after working and middle class people. I think it is wrong in this country, that pensioners and older people get discouraged from going to see the dentist because they can't get any help from the government to pay for the bills. I think it's wrong in this country that you've got men and women go to work, a million households are paying more for child care than ever before and there's no relief. So I think people are in the mood for change. In terms of the issues, I mean, happy to go through them as we go through the evening. But Labor has put a lot of its policies out there and I’ll tell you what, when it comes to standing up on wages, on cost of living, on health care, on pensioner dental, on better child care subsidies to help families deal with the cost of childcare, we're ready.
QUESTION: We’ll give Mr Shorten time to answer that Prime Minister.
SHORTEN: Yeah, well I thought we going to talk about climate change a little later but happy to start now.
QUESTION: And Mr Shorten you can speak directly to the Prime Minister as well. You guys are sitting next to each other, you don’t need to look directly down the barrel of the camera.
SHORTEN: Your guys told me to look down the camera, but that's fine. Listen, on climate change I think the nation is sick of the fact that we're still arguing about it. People just want us to get on with it. When you look at Australian households, there's 2 million Australian households that have already put solar on their rooftop. You know, 12 years ago that was 7,000 households. People aren't putting solar rooftop on their roofs because they think it's a cost, they think it's an investment and like all action on climate change you've got to invest to get a return here.
QUESTION: Mr Shorten and Prime Minister, I might step in there and we will give you the opportunity obviously to discuss climate change. Good evening to you who have just joined us you're watching the leaders’ debate. Every question asked tonight has been influenced by you our viewers and our readers of the West Australian. Our second question is indeed on carbon and climate change. Let's get back to our moderators.
QUESTION: So thanks Baz. The next question will go to Mr Shorten. Mr Shorten can you categorically rule out that there will be any negative impact on the economy or job losses as a result of your 45 per cent emissions reduction target?
SHORTEN: I can categorically say that if we don't take real action on climate change, it'll be a disaster for our economy. I can categorically guarantee that if we invest in climate change policies and we're fair dinkum, in the future we'll have more jobs, in the future we'll have lower energy prices and we won't be known as the generation who handed on a worse deal to our kids. I mean, this issue about ‘give us one number’, I don't think that's possible to do. What we need to do is understand that if you want to stop polluting the environment, you do have to spend some money, you do have to make some actions. But our policy is about working with business, making sure that we get least-cost abatement. The biggest reason why we've got energy prices out of control in Australia, is because this government can't make its mind up about what to do on climate change. I mean if they were fairdinkum on climate change, Malcolm Turnbull would still be prime minister. So we've got a suite of policies to help reduce emissions and in the long term we think that's going to be great not only for jobs, not only for companies, but for our kids in the future.
QUESTION: Mr. Morrison you are a father of two young daughters. How much of a threat is climate change to Australia's future and how urgent is the need for action on climate change?
QUESTION: Mr. Shorten we’ll give you an opportunity to answer that if you like and also probably pick up on that point about the Kyoto credits, which you’re not carrying forward and the Prime Minister is. How material is that in this debate?
SHORTEN: Ok, well the problem which we're debating here is, is the Government fair dinkum on climate change, or do we have better policies? The Government wants to scare people and say that if you vote Labor and we take real action to get more renewables in our energy system, that somehow that will be some horrendous cost. The fact of the matter is, I've heard this argument before. When people stop tipping chemicals into rivers, they said it would cost business more to stop the chemicals being tipped into the river. Asbestos used to be the most common building material used for 30 years and there were people who complained when we said we shouldn't use asbestos anymore. There's nothing wrong with requiring change, but we'll work with businesses. I was up at Sun Metals Zinc in Townsville, it's a very large refinery there, because of the investment, the cost they spend on building a new solar farm, they now get much cheaper power to the refinery which has helped keep the refinery in business. An argument which says that you shouldn't change or you should change so slowly that it's not going to have any impact, is an argument that says that ‘the future is too hard’. This Government is finding too many excuses not to act. In terms of our policy, we want at least-cost abatement. We want to make sure that we work with business. I mean, I speak to business all the time and they've said to me; ‘For goodness sake’ Bill, can't we get a bit of bipartisanship?” I've said; ‘Yep no problems’. What I've said to them is we'll take the Malcolm Turnbull National Energy Guarantee and we'll use that as the mechanism we use in business. They say; ‘Thank goodness,’ and I said; ‘But sorry there's a catch. Now they've got rid of Malcolm Turnbull, they dropped the National Energy Guarantee’. I mean, business wants certainty, they don't want surprises. I spent my life representing people in the steel industry, the cement industry, aluminum, people who work in internationally competitive industries. We will work with them, but we can't keep ducking the issue and we're going to take on the Government scare campaigns, because frankly if we don't then we're selling out the future.
QUESTION: Mr. Shorten one of your climate policies is that you want 50 per cent of all new cars sold in Australia to be electric by 2030. The Nissan Leaf is one of the more popular electric vehicles on the market, how much does that cost?
SHORTEN:  I haven't bought a new car in a while, so I couldn't tell you.
QUESTION: But shouldn’t you know how much that's going to cost?
SHORTEN: Well hang on Lanai -
SHORTEN: Well that’s great, we've got a Prime Minister spending his times in the motor pages. That's super. What I want to do -
SHORTEN: Oh, come on.
SHORTEN: This is - I'm not talking about who won the fifth at Flemington. What I'm saying is you know, this ‘gotcha’ stuff, where, do, can someone buy an electric car tomorrow? Well the problem is, it's very hard to buy cheap electric cars in Australia, because we don't have a proper market for them. Because we don't have the charging stations and because we've got a Government stuck in the past. Let me just clear up a couple of the nonsenses that we've already heard in the election and in some parts of the media, I might add too. What we'd like is that 50 per cent of new cars, it's a target if you want to buy an electric car, that we've got a proper market. We're not going to tell you to give in your ute. We don't mind what car you buy, but the rest of the world is moving to building electric cars. They're getting cheaper, why should we deny Australian consumers cheaper petrol bills and cheaper cars?
QUESTION: Mr Morrison we will leave it there in the interests of getting through as many topics as possible tonight. We're going to move to question three, it's a question which has dominated viewer comments during the election campaign and that question is; Labor and Liberal, who will most affect their pay packet. Let's go back to Lanai and Mark our moderators to fire in the questions and set up this next debate.
QUESTION: Mr. Morrison, let's go to you first on this. What will you do to lift wages and Mr. Shorten is saying that everything is going up except your wages, I think a lot Australians probably believe that to be true. Do high income earners really deserve about $140 billion worth of tax cuts at this time? What will you do to increase wages?
QUESTION: Alright we've got to keep things rattling along. Mr Shorten, you can respond on the tax issue. But also, you're promising a wage increase to average workers but you're not telling us what that wage increase will be, beyond saying ‘it's a real wage increase’. In other words, beyond inflation. Don't people have a right to know how much money you you're promising to put in their pocket? If you want address the issues of taxation please.
SHORTEN: Well Mark, you were listening very carefully as I was but more importantly the people watching at home in the audience. You asked Mr. Morrison ‘what’s your plan to get wages moving’? I heard about emissions reduction targets and I heard about taxation. But don't people in Australia not just deserve an improvement in their tax position, but actually a wage rise? Mr Morrison said; ‘It's 2.3 per cent, no problem there’. Don't people in Australia deserve better than just being told they don't have a problem? Wages growth in this country under this Government is at record lows and everything is going up. Childcare is up 28 per cent. Out-of-pockets to see the doctor up 20 per cent. Specialists 20, nearly 40 per cent. Private health insurance up and up. You name it, everything is going up except your wages. So we've got some very simple propositions; restore the penalty rate cuts which were arbitrarily taken from shop assistants and hospitality workers and pharmacists workers. We want to do more to help support casuals and labour hire workers from getting rid off. We want to clamp down on dodgy 457 visas. These are some of our plans to get wages moving.
QUESTION: Well let’s give Mr Shorten –
SHORTEN: I’m happy to answer that, I didn’t want to interrupt him. Ok, first of all I'm very proud of my record. I never ran into many Liberal politicians when I was negotiating wage rises for workers. Mind you, I mean here's the difference; if I had members of mine when I was a union rep who owed money, I'd chase the money. I wouldn't give their boss a spot in the Senate would I? And in terms of the bigger picture, in terms of penalty rates, periodically - I didn't set up the Fair Work Commission by the way, the Industrial Relations Commission was set up in 1907 - but more importantly than when it was established. Occasionally governments have said, when they've got the decision wrong, they've stepped in. When the Fair Work Commission wouldn't lift superannuation in awards then Hawke and Keating stepped in. Malcolm Turnbull stepped in when the Fair Work Commission created an agreement for volunteer and professional firefighters. Mr Morrison didn't have a problem with intervening then, but he does seem to have a problem of us saying; ‘Let's get the penalty rates back’. When I say it's arbitrary, what I mean is that people had their public holiday pay rates cut, their Sunday rates cut. They weren't compensated during the week, it was just a cut, is a cut, is a cut. The McKell Institute has said that's costing Australian workers, over the next three years if Labor is not elected, $2.8 billion. These are low paid workers. Mr Morrison, I accept, you know, has a good wage and he earns that. But a lot of Liberals on the frontbench of his Government don't know what it's like to live on $40,000 and $50,000 a year.
QUESTION: Mr Morrison, how do you respond to that?
SHORTEN: Then why did you vote eight times against restoring penalty rates?
SHORTEN: Eight times you voted against it mate.
QUESTION: Mr Shorten, Mr Morrison I’ll jump in there - entertaining as you are with tonight’s debate and we appreciate it – the next line of questioning is a very broad one but decisive for many households, that’s the topic of boat arrivals, religion and national security. We all know only too well, in recent weeks immigration returned to the top of the agenda after the Christchurch terror attacks. Over to you Lani and Mark for question number four.
QUESTION: Mr. Morrison the first question goes to you. Was your claim that the people smuggling trade would restart again after the passage of the Medivac bill is just simply a lie given only one person came to Australia and we haven't seen an influx of boats as you said would occur.
QUESTION: Mr Shorten as Mr Morrison mentioned there, there was 1,200 people who died at sea under the previous Labor government. In 2012 and 2013 alone more than 37,000 asylum seekers arrived in Australian waters on 500 boats. How will you ensure that will not occur again, if you win the prime ministership on May 18?
SHORTEN: Well, sometimes in politics - this may surprise viewers - we can actually agree with each other and on some parts of what the Government policy is, we now agree. I actually accept the boat turn-backs work and I've convinced my party to accept that. I don't want the people smuggling trade to start again. I don't think it is right to put people on unsafe vessels and send them across the Indian Ocean. I think that's unscrupulous. I think it is dangerous and it is criminal. So we will not change that policy. We believe in boat turn backs where it's safe to do so. We will keep the same amount of resources in border security and we will also not allow people who come by boat through a people smuggler to resettle in Australia. We'll keep resettling them overseas. The only argument which has happened at the margins and I think it is more noise than substance, is that if you've got a very sick person in the care of Australia, albeit indirectly in Nauru or Manus and they require medical treatment and that treatment is best found in Australia, we should give that to them. To be fair, the Government has bought 900 people across that way. When we had the medivac legislation which the Government said was the end of the world as they knew it, and we had the $180 million press conference on Christmas Island. Only one person has come since, so really when you look at it, I think this is a Government looking for an issue, a point of difference. We just think, we accept that we don't the people smugglers to start again. I just say to the Government on behalf of people who might be a conned to go on boats; please don't encourage the people smugglers.
QUESTION: We’ll go to debate now between you.
SHORTEN: Well can we, I thinks it’s important -
SHORTEN: [Inaudible]
QUESTION:  Mr Shorten the allegation there is that you’re not -
SHORTEN: No hang on Mark, he’s made that point and I think I should answer it.
QUESTION:  Yep.
SHORTEN: Sorry, is that what you were going to ask me?
QUESTION: Yep, absolutely.
SHORTEN: Okay listen, we are going to have boat turn backs. I didn't say our policies are identical in every way. They voted against medivac legislation. But when it comes to the fundamentals, we are completely committed to stopping the people smugglers coming back. I accept the lessons of the past and I accept that where the Liberal Party has an idea or parts of an idea which I think work, I'll adopt it. What people hate in Australian politics is when one side says there's nothing good on the other side and vice versa. Well, I'm not going to be that sort of prime minister if I get elected. I accept some of the experience which Mr Morrison has said. We don't want this evil trade to start again. I suppose I do differ in tone, in terms of the time it's taken to resettle people. I actually congratulated Malcolm Turnbull for him managing to get President Trump to keep the deal to move some people to the United States. What I don't want to see though is that the proposition, the demonization of refugees. What we don't want in this country, is to be a country which says that minorities should be picked on by majorities.
SHORTEN: Do you know -
QUESTION: I'm now going to jump in, because we'd like to keep the debate moving, we’d like to get to as many questions as we can. I’ve relocated to the audience, we'd like to thank both leaders for agreeing tonight to take some questions from the floor. I'm with now Seven viewer and West reader Ron Ryan. Ron good evening to you. If you’d ask your question, please.
QUESTION: My question’s addressed to Bill Shorten and it’s to do with franking. Is there a limit based on the shareholder’s worth or value and how will this affect pensioners with small holdings?
QUESTION: Bill Shorten first.
SHORTEN: Thanks for your question Ron. You're asking about the effect on pensioners?
QUESTION: That’s right.
SHORTEN: Ok, well on our franking credits proposal there is - we are not interested in affecting pensioners, at all. So, our policy doesn't apply to people who receive a pension or a part pension. But just to go to unpack the term, Ron, beyond answering your question because quite a lot of people don't know what franking credits are or they don't understand them, which means that changes don't affect you. I've been amazed by the number of people I've met as I've travelled around Australia who say; ‘Is it really the case that you can get a tax credit or a tax refund, when you haven't paid income tax?’ What we're doing is winding back that loophole. Currently in Australia, if you own a big load of shares, if you get a dividend or interest from the shares, that's not taxed when you’re in retirement, but what you’d also get, is the government gives you a bit more money on top of it. Now that's just not sustainable. You've got to make choices in government. We've decided to find pensioner dental care, up to a $1,000 over two years for every pensioner in Australia. But your change that you’re concerned about with pensioners, that doesn't happen. We're not touching the pension.
QUESTION: Alright.
QUESTION: [Inaudible] Mr Morrison -
SHORTEN: No, no let’s not do that.
QUESTION: Mr. Morrison though, 50 per cent of the proceeds from this go to the top 10 per cent of a self-managed super funds. Really, you call it a retiree tax, it’s not actually tax, it's a removal of a tax rebate to people who aren't paying tax isn’t it?
SHORTEN: Wow.
SHORTEN: [Inaudible]
SHORTEN: All right let's just go back and deal with all that. But first things first I want to pay a bit of respect to the questioner, because Scott sort of moved the truth a fair way along from where it started. To Ron, I ask do you have a self-managed super fund?
QUESTION: No, I don’t.
SHORTEN: All right, so I wasn't talking about self-managed super funds. Let’s -
SHORTEN: Well in Ron’s circumstances.
SHORTEN: All right. Well, first of all let me state very clearly pensioners and part pensioners are not affected. Anyone who - and there's about 20,000 who we’re aware of as of March last year who were in a self-managed super fund, because they're not normally the vehicle of choice for the 2.6 million pensioners in Australia - up to March of last year, they’re not affected. A very small number of people who were in an SMSF in the future from the date we announced, that may be affected.
SHORTEN: Can I just - you had a good crack there, you had a good crack. The real problem here is this and this is what I want to say to Australians; do you really think it is fair that someone who doesn't pay income tax in the year which they get a tax credit, gets a tax refund? Now, it's not illegal. It's not immoral and Scott gave the, you know, these people who worked hard all their lives. So have all the other pensioners. So does everyone else who works tax. This is purely a reform. This nation can't keep giving money in the form of a tax cheque to people who didn't pay tax. Do you know half a million Australians have to pay on average $11,000 dollars of tax year just to give a tax refund to someone who didn't pay tax? It's not sustainable.
QUESTION: Very quickly Mr Shorten -
SHORTEN: Woah, woah, there you go again.
SHORTEN: Yeah, I heard that. We’ll just shut that one -
QUESTION: We’ve got to move on, we’ve got to move on.  
SHORTEN: Mark, Mark, Scott’s had two bites of the cherry there.
QUESTION: Very quickly.
SHORTEN: I just want to come back very quickly and say when John Howard introduced a proposition which said that you could get a tax refund without paying tax, that cost half a billion dollars a year. It's now $6 billion, it's climbing. Like, it's not illegal, but it's a gift the nation can't keep giving a gift of a tax refund.
QUESTION: Alright –
QUESTION: Mr Shorten, Mr Morrison, I will have to jump in. We don't have an infinite amount of time so we do want to get to question six, another question from our audience, thank you to Ron, for his thought provoking question. I'm now with Corey, Corey all yours.
QUESTION: Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you a question; what do you think of Clive Palmer and his questions today … his comments today? So what does Clive Palmer have to do … how important is Clive Palmer to your campaign?
SHORTEN: Well - 
SHORTEN: There we go.
SHORTEN: Rubbish.
SHORTEN: Rubbish, rubbish.
SHORTEN: Yeah, yeah, we see that don’t we?
SHORTEN: You’re so harsh.
SHORTEN: Hang on, hang on.
QUESTION: Alright we will give Mr Shorten equal time to respond to all of that,
QUESTION: Prime Minister, you’ve gone over time.
SHORTEN: Well, there’s the talking points. Going back to Corey's actual question about what role is Clive Palmer playing in this election, I think he's playing a really chaotic role. Now the issue which I had a polite sort of a little dig at the Government on is that Mr Palmer and this company he is very interested in, Queensland Nickel went to insolvency. They owed $74 million to the workforce. That is a lot. Now what happened is that the taxpayer under the law, stepped in to the shoes of the workers, gave them $70 million dollars. Then, Mr. Palmer owes that amount of money to the taxpayer. Now I think it's downright cheeky of this man who's basically got a tax free line from the Government for not paying his debts, is now spending all that money bombarding you with these crazy posters and you know, whatever ‘Australia’ and you know, the digital wallpaper he's sending you. It’s not on. So, you know, but the deeper issue here isn't even that. If Mr Morrison wants to sort of smirk about getting some deals with Clive Palmer, so be it, I couldn't ultimately do a deal with this guy.
SHORTEN: Well that's true. I didn’t, you did.
SHORTEN: No, sorry -
SHORTEN: Didn’t mean to interrupt.
QUESTION: Well –
SHORTEN: Let’s, no seriously, let's finish this point, it's a real issue, because Palmer, we've had 6 years of chaos under the current Government. How on earth did Mr Morrison and this desperate government manage to get themselves taken hostage by Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson? This is the real problem in the election; does anyone who's ever dealt with Clive Palmer think that he just does something for nothing? If Mr Palmer's preferences, which are crucial to helping Mr Morrison get some of his MPs elected - which is why they did the deal - that debt is Mr Palmer going to come knocking on the door of the Prime Minister if in fact Mr Palmer rescues the Prime Minister?
SHORTEN: Oh yeah, well, you haven’t met Clive Palmer if you believe that.
QUESTION: I’ll step in there –
SHORTEN: He's a good Samaritan Clive Palmer. 
SHORTEN: Yeah a good Samaritan
SHORTEN: It’s just lucky, he’s the unicorn of Liberal politics.
SHORTEN: We've put our policies out there. See that's the difference when you -
SHORTEN: Sorry, when you're finished I'll have a go. Have you finished? The point about it is, we're not going to coalition with the Greens. The fact of the matter is that we prefer their views to One Nation and to some of your views. But I'm running to form a government and I tell you what, if you don't think that Clive Palmer and Pauline Hanson are pretty dodgy people to be working with, well then I think that's a mistake and I tell you what, the Australian people are on to them.
SHORTEN: Not the Nationals though of course, they’re your coalition partners the Nationals, except when it's convenient for them not to be your partners.
QUESTION: Mr Morrison, we appreciate your answers to that question, thank you to Ron and thank you to Corey for two very thought-provoking questions from our audience, yes indeed. So our final question tonight and it's one that perhaps many of you would not have imagined would be asked. We are of course strongly watching the clock tonight. We have been a little flexible on time during this evening's debate but it must now finish on time. When the debate begins, I'll ask the leaders to be mindful of the time so for our final question tonight Lanai and Mark, it’s back to you.
QUESTION: So this is a question to both of you. Mr Morrison, what do you admire about Mr Shorten and Mr Shorten what do you admire about Mr Morrison?
QUESTION: Mr Shorten.
SHORTEN: Ok well I respect Scott for more than just he's a politician. I actually think on the topic of mental health, I've listened carefully to his words and I think he does have a view about that topic. I mean that's a really important topic. I also respect the fact that he serves in the Parliament, but he's also a man of deep conviction. Now I don't agree with every policy position he holds but I think he has a sincerity and he has a real conviction about what he believes in. But on mental health Scott, I reckon you're doing good work and I look towards us working our policies more closely together.
QUESTION: Alright well Mr. Shorten and Mr. Morrison thank you for those very respectful answers. As you can all see at home and here in our audience, over the past hour the leaders have debated the topics our viewers and our audiences and readers have flagged as key to who they will choose to vote for. You all know in your mind who has won and who has lost tonight's debate. But like all debates we will allow a final say. As the Prime Minister opened the debate, we will invite the Prime Minister again to lead our closing statements so that Mr. Shorten will conclude. Prime Minister it's over to you.
SHORTEN: Well thank you. Thank you everybody for listening. Listen thanks everybody for listening. I've outlined Labor's choices for this election about what we think is important and the Government has outlined their choices. But now it's up to you to make your choice. It really comes down to the case for change. Has there been enough of a case made for change? The reality is that in the last six years, when you voted for Tony Abbott you ended up getting Malcolm Turnbull. When you voted for Malcolm Turnbull last time, you got Mr. Morrison. When you vote for Mr. Morrison this time who knows, you might get Clive Palmer or Pauline Hanson. The chaos has to stop. But even as important as the instability of the current Government is, the question is this a strong economy, for who? Who benefits at the moment? It is fair to say that in the last three years corporate profits have gone up 39 per cent. Wages have only gone up 5 per cent. It's fair to say that child care costs are up. Private health insurance is becoming a luxury. That the Government's cuts to hospitals and Medicare have meant that we've seen are greater out-of-pocket costs to see the doctor. And of course the Government hasn't kept the promises it's made when it was first elected; proper funding of schools. And we've seen the number of trainees and apprenticeships fall by 150,000. So this economy is not working for you. Our choice is different. If you want to have properly funded schools and hospitals, vote Labor. If you want real action on climate change and no more excuses, vote Labor. If you want to see 3 million Aussie pensioners and senior healthcare card holders get a $1,000 support for their dental costs, vote Labor. If you're one of 1 million Australian households who use child care and earn less than $175,000, vote Labor for our $2,000 subsidy. If you want to actually see penalty rates restored and if you want to see a united team take us forward for three years, vote Labor. This country works best when everyone gets a fair go and that's the Labor motto, a fair go for all.
QUESTION: Gentlemen you were – I’ll let the audience applaud. You had a great free-flowing debate. You went over time in some areas, you were incredibly brief when you were asked to be nice to the other person, so we've actually got a little bit of time up their sleeve which allows us a minute each for this question. Mr. Morrison you first, what should voters know about your opponent that they don't know?
QUESTION: Mr Shorten I'll give you the same opportunity to tell voters what they should know about the man sitting next to you?
SHORTEN: Well first of all what I think is that this country can't afford to just go on the path that we're on. You know our national broadband, our broadband speed we were in the mid-30s when this government got elected, now it was 62nd in the world. We're 25th in terms of maths capacity of our kids. Our wages growth is 27th for amongst the organized, you know, the other comparable nations. You know Mr Morrison says there is a cost to change. I'll tell you what Mr. Morrison, Scott, the change, the cost of not changing is this; longer waiting lists for hip surgery and cataracts. The cost of not changing is more and more people not being able to deal when they're in the fight of their lives of cancer, with getting the support they need and help with the out-of-pocket costs. The cost of not changing is that we hand on a worse environment to the kids. The cost of maintaining tax loopholes for the wealthy, mean that our hospitals and schools and child care and pensioners don't get the fair deal that they deserve. That's the cost of inaction.