Insufferably boring, culturally hegemonic, and profoundly ugly.
As the old adage goes, you can't polish a turd. But you can sprinkle plenty of CGI and countless close-ups of Keanu Reeves looking morose onto it.
This botched vision accepts the warrior's nobility at face value and sees the story merely as a springboard for high-flying action and CGI special effects.
I have the horrible feeling that in cold print that sounds a lot livelier than it is. In practice, it plays like an overlong round of Whose Line Is It Anyway? where all the participants are stoned.
All laurels eventually become resting grounds, and with Coffee and Cigarettes, Jim Jarmusch rides his own coattails, with none of the panache that defined his earlier work.
... an anthology of curiosities, some more curious than others, wound around a diverse cast paired off for random ramblings over caffeine and nicotine.
Curious collection of shorts will bore most kids.
Independent filmmaking grandfather Jim Jarmusch conceives the laziest and most tiring movie of his career with a series of vignettes calculated around celebrities talking over coffee and cigarettes.
Bitingly witty and fun.
Jarmusch continues to be one of the most intriguing and compelling filmmakers of the age.
...a brilliant examination of the nature of the modern encounter.
A little less than half of the film worked for me, which cannot justify a recommendation.
Often gorgeous and poetic film.
No matter how respected a celebrity is, watching him or her jabber about caffeine's stimulative power is not revealing.
Eleven smart breaks from everyday reality.
Coffee and Cigarettes feels thin and slight at times.... But at its best, the movie achieves the charm and delight that underscores Jarmusch's best work
Arranged in short episodes, each composed entirely of awkward and embarassed conversation between midlevel celebs, Coffee and Cigarettes entertains fitfully.
Falls flat as often as it makes magic, the cumulative effect as comforting as a night spent at your coffee shop taking in humanity's endlessly colourful social exchanges.
A caffeinated exercise in nonsequitur metaphysics...
Coffee and Cigarettes will either entertain or madden you. Maybe both.
Embarrassingly lopsided between the evocative talents of its starry cast and crew members and the sheer banality of what Jarmusch has actually invited them to participate in.
It's endearing, plotless and strange.
Ordinary people don't generally go for Jarmusch's quirky films, and while this won't earn him a huge mainstream audience, it is accessible in a harmless, unpretentious way.
The segments are uneven, some so wispy they all but evaporate off the screen, but the ones that work prove once again that Jarmusch is one of the most dryly amusing, smartest and original independent filmmakers around.
What unites everything is Jarmusch's playful, hang-dog absurdism.
By Jarmusch's own previously set standards in such films as Stranger Than Paradise, Ghost Dog, and Dead Man, Coffee and Cigarettes serves up a weak brew.
A black-and-white novelty that plays like a directing-class exercise, you take your good with your bad with this one.
Jarmusch concocts a comedic anthology that's calculated, arbitrary and inconsistent -- and so hilarious when it works that you'll forget any regrets before the last cup is downed.
While the collection of vignettes offers a few great pleasures, in the context of Jim Jarmusch's oeuvre, it is slight.
As with any collection of shorts, some work better than others. Here, though, none is a failure and a few are fabulous.
An oddball tribute to the art of conversation -- you know, just hanging out and talking with friends.
I came out of the theater as refreshed as if I were coming out of a coffeehouse.
Talk, mood and feel dominate as action fades into the background. The air is filled with the sting of smoke, buttressed by the heavy smell of a dark brew.
The film is a series of scenes, skits, episodes, that show two or sometimes three people smoking and sipping and conversing, usually in grungy places and usually improvising -- at least that's the intended impression.
The vignettes have the pleasant cumulative effect of making us slow down to smell the coffee.
As infuriating and inconsistent as a film can get. Some of its scenes are quite dull and dry, yet others are fascinating and funny. And others still are just head-scratchingly weird.
Bill Murray evokes a few guffaws in one skit here, but other segments fail to elicit much interest or laughter.
It is decaffeinated to the point of paralysis, which is the opposite reaction the stimulants in question typically produce.
Star appeal aside, I needed a cup of joe to get through this one.
A hit-or-miss movie.
Plays like a group of actors giving their best effort for ten minutes or so in order to win some coveted role.
Jarmusch missed his mark; trying to present simple, non-dramatic moments but using celebrities
The work of a filmmaker so convinced of his own hipness and secure in his cult status that he needn't concern himself with such niceties as clever writing.
The films have been exhibited over the years at festivals and museums but, viewed together, they cohere surprisingly well.
It's the rare chance to glimpse the doodles of an auteur.
An irresistible idea results in a movie as hazy and sometimes as irritating as cigarette smoke.
At least three of the spots make the hour and a half worthwhile through an addicting blend of hilarity and beauty.
Sometimes movies tire us by trying too relentlessly to pound us with their brilliance and energy. Here is a movie pitched at about the energy level of a coffee break.
The short form looks like a genuine alternative in Jarmusch's hands because of what he does with it.
Though Coffee and Cigarettes provokes the occasional buzz, it is really just a respite from any serious business [Jarmusch] may have planned, or may be putting off.
You have to revisit that record time after time to appreciate the concept, to figure it out, to admire it, to groove on it, to get it.
They did manage to achieve the near-impossible: to show all that coffee drinking without a single Starbucks, but that certainly doesn't qualify as entertainment.
[T]here is a refreshing rough-and-tumble energy to the films, even the ones that don't fully gel.
It has the sad, goofy charm of a silent comedy with Buster Keaton, a Jarmusch favorite, with passive-aggressive hits and flashes of barely contained antagonism.
Although this talky collection of black-and-white films from Jim Jarmusch ... has the potential to drive anyone into the lobby, it rewards those who are patient.
Although it flat-lines repeatedly in episodes that feel like improvised acting exercises, the film is more than intermittently amusing and occasionally hilarious.
The draggy ones make you restless while the best ones, like the movie's title ingredients, provide a buzz that doesn't last long enough.
Brilliant when it's working and dull as dishwater when it's not.
Coffee and Cigarettes will attract fans of Jim Jarmusch's quirky film style and offbeat humor.
An anthology of curiosities, some more curious than others...
An amusing selection of vignettes.
Nearly all are almost painfully self-conscious as the actors strain for the hip brand of improvised spontaneity that is usually guaranteed by a Jarmusch production.
Jarmusch demonstrates once again why he is the sultan of strange encounters.
There are few things more boring than cool. Cool keeps to itself; cool doesn't reveal itself. For cool to be cool, it has to be part of a larger story. Here it's not.
Things pick up with the latter pieces, which were shot independently of any ongoing Jarmusch production and consequently feel less like outtakes, afterthoughts.
It's all weird. It's often humourous. It can be a tad precious but it's mostly very engaging.
Expect a map, and you'll be sorely disappointed. Work to make one, and you'll be happily addicted.
Jarmusch has aged into a hipster of a sly, vulnerable vintage.
Though Jarmusch is fond of deflecting gestalt reads of his films individually and collectively, make no mistake that there is a meticulous structure.
It is way cool -- and funny -- in ways that more expensive comedies trying harder rarely are.
The film begins on a comparative high note with Roberto Benigni and Steven Wright as two good-natured screwballs, and it ends with a lyrically poignant epiphany with Bill Rice and the once-impish Taylor Mead.
Discussing his innovative combinations of alternative medicine and music, RZA provides a clever gloss on his own numerologizing and Eastern philosophizing.
A doodle on the notepad of a major filmmaker -- sort of a charming stopgap between bigger and better Jarmusch pictures. 
He obsessively contrives his characters and situations to work toward something -- a point, a message, a statement.
The movie abounds in stellar moments.
From one scene to the next, you never know what to expect, and that's thrilling.
those who remain patient through the film's several dry spells will be richly rewarded in the end stretch
The last two skits are the best; the first features Bill Murray, RZA, and GZA, and the second stage actors Bill Rice and Taylor Mead.
Feel so haphazardly conceived and slapped together that one wonders for whom this compilation was made.
While sometimes evocative, they don't add up to a satisfying movie any more than, as several characters are cautioned, coffee and cigarettes constitute a healthy lunch.
Despite glimmers of wit and a hipper-than-thou cast, it's painstakingly smug, and smaller than the sum of its parts.
Flat and uninspired.
In a world where even the independent filmmakers are all starting to look alike, it's a pleasure to welcome back the one-of-a-kind eccentricities of a true original.
A couple of the sketches in the middle drag lifelessly, but the best ones -- usually revolving around a sharp satire of celebrity -- buoy the whole.
Nine of the shorts are instantly forgettable, two are wryly amusing and one is a knockout.
This is a film for people who want something more than predictable entertainment. It's for people who love to watch people.
While a few are touched by brilliance and a few more are mildly amusing, others provide ample opportunity for leaving the theater to buy popcorn or take a coffee break.
There is art here, and amusement to be had. But most of it is of an arch and trifling nature, as lasting as a chemical rush and ephemeral as smoke.
At best, an interesting idea that seems to get lost in the cigarette smoke
May inspire a shrug from most viewers, but it has lingered with me, growing sillier and more charming each time I think about it.
It's like a showcase for actors to be seen by agents and casting directors, except this ensemble is already made of stars and celebrities. 
Eleven slices of comedy heaven.
Of the twelve shorts, there's really only three that are good and a few that are passable. The other half are uninteresting, poor, and at times, incredibly painful to watch.
This delightful confection of short vignettes centered around java and smoking offers a whimsical glimpse of American envy, addiction, humor and pop culture.
It's a slow burn at times, but in the end, it's as satisfying as a good cup of, well, you know what.
Has a student film quality in its conception and realization
Jim Jarmusch's anthology of minor-key vignettes is a celebration of caffeine, nicotine and the indolent pleasure of sitting around and consuming them.
Some are weak, some are superb ... but they get better as they go along, ending with the most understated and touching of all, featuring Taylor Mead and Bill Rice as cultural rebels who've outlived their rebellions.
It's worth fidgeting through the mediocre stuff to get to three good pieces.
Jarmusch the sly formalist, it seems, has become a virtuoso of the interpersonal duet.
Subdued when it should be overblown and worthwhile when it should be a trifle.
Never more or less than what it appears to be, the film is a slow honky-tonk thud-beat, only intermittently punctuated by a joke or idea.
A series of vignettes, mostly unworkable.
thoughtfully observes the human compulsion to connect via conversation in all its glorious absurdity
Most successful are the mini-comedies with a loose punchline, while others barely qualify as character sketches.
Sure, it's just two or three people bonding over the twin addictions of the title. But Jarmusch makes it a feast that plays like a haunting concept album.
The short films in this collection are dreamily affecting curiosities, stilted and just enough off-kilter to keep the viewer attentive.
After aimless improv with Benigni and Waits, a binary appearance by Cate Blanchett shows us what the term "screen star" means. Her sample reel is tops.
apt to provide a slight, delectable buzz but little nutritional value
Alas, Coffee and Cigarettes is more fun to reminisce about afterwards than it is to endure.
Most of the shorts, despite the star power on tap, are negligible.










A cookie cutter creation, churned out for an existing fan base and little else.
Frankie Faison comes the closest to Vonnegut's spirit in his bold caricature of the Black Fuehrer of Harlem.
Director Keith Gordon emphasizes the speeches more than other issues, and his otherwise thoughtful movie needlessly romanticizes hate. 
Nick Nolte is excellent in Keith Gordon's ambitious but flawed adaptation of Vonnegut's fascinating novel.
Surprisingly good Vonnegut adaptation
Helps us to see that there is no escaping the burdens of living in a political world.
A serious drama that is also funny without crossing into burlesque.
Wonderfully mysterious and emotionally draining.




















Woo's signature visual ballistics and predilection for highly wrought melodrama of the kind Douglas Sirk might be proud are imprinted on virtually every frame
Still a fun movie even if it doesn't match the high standards of the rest of the series thanks to Woo bringing his trademark over the top action sequences.
Good thrill ride of a movie for teens and older.
This will go down on my list as the better sequels.
Woo lays on his own particular high-octane stylishness so thick the results edge perilously toward self-parody.
Here, Woo just seems to fall back on slow-mo whenever he gets bored, which apparently is often.
For all my profound reservations about the whole project, I wound up liking it more, or, at least disliking it less, than I had anticipated. Thandie Newton is the biggest reason.
Woo's hysterically hyper visuals and boytoy gimmickry can't camouflage the emptiness of the enterprise.
It doesn't matter how many extra months the director spends creating impressive action scenes. If the audience is not emotionally invested in the fate of the heroes, no amount of explosions will make them care.
The makers don't go out of their way to make this original in any way, but the quality comes through.
This sequel seems afraid of confusing people, so much so that it dumbs down the plot to an insulting level.
A more coherent and romantic script.
Rather than a groundbreaking piece of new gadgetry, this thriller is like an old, well-oiled machine.
Woo outwits, outgadgets, outstunts and outdirects the original with one hand tied behind his back.
Fans of straight action/adventure may enjoy this film; fans of TV's Mission: Impossible may not recognize it.
Despite Cruise's attempts here to be Byronic, there's something strenuous about his soulfulness; he turns everything, even repose, into calisthenics.
By any reasonable measure Mission: Impossible II is a successful action-adventure film.
God bless John Woo.
It's fun. It's laughable. It has moments of excitement, moments of sheer idiocy and moments of sheer idiotic excitement.
Everything has fallen into place for an action megathriller that should please everyone except those still smarting over the Jim Phelps betrayal.
A strained sequel to a feature rip-off of an old television show with a stealable theme song. On screen and off, no one's getting marks for originality here.
If not the worst movie of the year, the most insulting and infuriating.
Capraesque. Hitchcockian. Add Wootastic to the Lexicon.
The crashes, action sequences and effects are all accomplished pretty much seamlessly and professionally though one criticism of this movie is overabundance.
Those hoping for a solid flick using the full talents of people like Woo, Cruise, Rhames, etc. will sadly be disappointed.
How the mighty have fallen.
This is the action movie of the year, maybe the best in several years. It is trying to be the next Bond-type franchise series and if the next one is anywhere near this good, it may succeed.
If Mr. Cruise peeled off his face and turned out to have been Chow Yun Fat all along, the picture might be saved.
Woo is in fine form.
Isn't bad as summer action fare goes.
There are graceful Woo touches even outside the action scenes, like the swaying of sheep as a helicopter buzzes their pen in the Outback. But it's not enough to get over the blandness.
It's eye candy that detonates.
A terrific thrill ride of a movie.
at times he gets carried away, still true, Woo is cool. This mission would have been next to impossible without him.
Without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses.
Where Cruise's deference helped elevate his previous two films to artistic heights, his egotism has deflated his latest.
The action and the intended-to-be-graceful moments are more silly than stunning, prompting more laughter than applause.
The problems here can be summed up thus: 'Produced by Tom Cruise.'
As a complete film, it's not as great as one would hope and can't help but come off as not much more than a revved up, but nonetheless, mediocre Bond wannabe.
Action fans will get a kick out of it. Mark this one as strictly for the testosterone set.
A vaguely absurd epidemiological thriller filled with elaborately superfluous setups and shamelessly stale James Bond riffs.
Quite simply, Woo is to action what Fred Astaire was to dance and John Wayne was to winning the West. Nobody does it better.
The movie is good for its minimal escapism, but little more.
Old-fashioned entertainment liberally coated with flair, style and an explosion of action.
It's still entertaining and fun, in a check-your-brain-at-the-box-office kind of way.
Second-string Woo.
An effective spectacle of violence.
A thoroughbred racehorse of a movie: sleek, fast, graceful and utterly devoid of intellectual content.
Breezy, breathless, brainless fun.
Trust me, this is the real thing.
We can finally put the aging James Bond to rest. He's been replaced as cinema's best spy by Ethan Hunt of the Mission: Impossible films.
An utter disappointment and a delusion of a film. Stay away -- far away.
Loud, technically proficient, very expensive, and pretty much soulless.
The film continually halts the action to repeat the plot to us, sometimes word for word.
Instead of being the next great John Woo masterpiece, it is yet another in the growing roster of action flicks that merely seem to reek of his influence.
John Woo takes over the director's reins this time, bringing his accomplished visual flair to the proceedings.
Defiantly brainless, but it's still big-time eye candy.
Just like with the first film, the action sequences are stronger than the actual story.
The movie as a whole is a leap backwards, assembled out of a story as thin as noodles, and stunts so overproduced and bloated that they leave us staring on in disbelief.
An overload of non-stop, gravity-defying action sequences.
This flick has little intrigue to tie it to its namesake and it comes off more like a very expensive John Woo spoof.
Dull, routine, and not much fun.
Kimball's work is always appealing to the eye yet never too noticeable so as to draw attention away from the movie's plot.
A dizzyingly enjoyable retro rollercoaster.
Brains will be checked at the door; a good time will be had by some.
The sequel has exposition to spare, but it resembles someone talking to a person who doesn't speak their language and thinks he can make them understand by talking louder and slower.
Entertaining in its own wacky way.
Woo beats Brian De Palma's direction of M:I all to heck.
The plot lacks the deftness of the first film.
The script, by Robert Towne isn't just coherent, it's also occasionally funny in self-referential ways.
The movie plays better than its predecessor to audiences that are not turned off by human emotions.
Once again, so many talented, smart, wealthy people are selling the slam-bam of sadism and an idiotic plot that could be the senile fantasy of Klaus Barbie.
Any minute now, it'll stand up and pull off its mask and voice chip and be revealed for what it truly is: a rejected Bond script.
Kimball's work is always appealing to the eye yet never too noticeable so as to draw attention away from the movie's plot.
A few nice moments does not a movie make.
The bottom line is that it delivers all the excitement and adventure it promises.
Even the most spectacular things Woo unleashes here feel strangely impersonal.
The action sequences are truly breathtaking, and Woo's attention to detail pays off in a film where computer keystrokes are as vital as huge explosions.
Cruise has hit his stride as an action hero with such confidence that he can completely take over any scene the script requires him to.
[John Woo] sacrifices logic and narrative coherence with less hesitation than one of his villains would display in shooting an accomplice to avoid apprehension.
To his credit, Woo milks every last ounce of poetry from this mission, filling out Robert Towne's anemic script with his trademark doves, slo-mo acrobatics, and double-fisted gunplay.
Woo is a singularly graceful filmmaker, a true believer in the power of elegant stunt choreography and the infinite allure of the human face.
Had there not been a Battlefield Earth I'd say this was the biggest turkey of the summer.
Mission: Impossible looks poised to take over as the spy series moviegoers can get excited about.
Check your brains at the popcorn stand and hang on for a spectacular ride.
If you've ever wished that a really good action director -- John Woo, say -- would make a James Bond film, you can stop wishing.
Cruise makes a convincing hero.
Ends up being just another schlock fest with high speed hi-jinx and more stunts than anybody should ever throw money at.
A very good summer movie.
I generally don't like my action movies so action-free.
A disappointing foray, a generic piece of very expensive filmmaking that lacks the James Bond wit and eclat while at the same time highlights a romance that is as sexless as it is inconceivable.
A coy and hollow parody.
...yet another routine action thriller designed to showcase the star appeal of Tom Cruise.
Woo is not able to make the action scenes believable or enjoyable.
A sleek, stylistic adventure thriller, a fun-filled popcorn picture that will not self-destruct.
An extremely entertaining vehicle, a testosterone-filled escape. It's a slam-bang way to begin the summer.
Anyone who's followed Woo's career knows he's better than this material.
The silliest movie you'll see this summer.
What makes it so haunting is the sensitivity to its lead characters and their unusual plight.
Shares some themes with Lynch's The Elephant Man.
The Polish brothers make an auspicous debut, and establish a tone -- like it or not, they've delivered on it since then.
Beautiful, hypnotic film about Siamese twin brothers.
...straddles the stylistic gulf between David Lynch and the Coen brothers. It is a creepy film, beautiful in odd and disturbing ways.
The film got caught up too much in the tragedy of the twin's life without coming up with much more than heavy symbolism for its answers.
Nothing much happens, but we go on a journey just the same...
A small, poignant gem despite its laggardly pacing. Definitely an off-beat, side show attraction, but with three big rings of heart, character, and soul.
A movie as compelling and unusual as its subject.
The Polishes aim to find what a union between two people really means and demands, and their film is surprisingly gentle, heartfelt and sweet.
an air of mystery - not a whodunit mystery, but a deeper, internal mystery of the spirit and the soul 
Twin Falls Idaho is flawed in many ways but its virtues also cannot be denied.
A sad, fascinating, and profoundly moving portrait of two individuals who have learned, not by choice, to live together.
This ranks as one of Hammer's greatest ever.
A rattling collection of warmed-over ideas filmed on a paltry budget...doesn't do anything that Dracula and Prince of Darkness didn't already do better.
Yet another Chris Lee Dracula picture
This movie looks and feels like the dutiful labors of a good man who should have vacationed at this gorgeous mythical land rather than filmed a movie at the site.
Casa de los Baby's" is a frustrating and tedious experience to endure.
Didactic rather than dramatic, and schematic rather than realistic, Sayles' femme-driven yarn, set in an anonymous place, lags behind the zeitgeist with little to say about the issue of adoption or First vs. Third World countries.
a political pamphlet not very different from others that come from left-leaning Hollywood these days
Sayles lets the befuddlements and ordinary complications of life take its course like a winding, sunlit stream.
Sayles' love of and respect for the culture, and his willingness-or eagerness-to leave the viewer with more questions than answers makes Casa de los Babys superlative.
The story trails off in so many directions that it's hard to follow. After a while, I just found myself losing interest.
Goo-goo gag me.
All in all, the film just tries to do too much.
Writer-director John Sayles has successfully tackled so many unexpected subjects that one has to wonder if he's got a dartboard in his office to help him pick his next topic.
The film sags from the weight of too many characters, and its suggestion that the world is nothing but sadness is too much to bear.
Astute character studies are the point here, rather than a neat and tidy story.
Displays a succinct sensitivity making it [Sayles'] best film since Lone Star.
This is a thought-provoking film, and it features one of the best acting ensembles in awhile -- even by Sayles' standards.
Sayles gives us sample tastes of characters and a situation that could have made a full-course cinematic meal.
Sayles demonstrates a remarkable ability to fully flesh out characters who are on-screen for only a short time.
Each woman is a cardboard cutout, and the talented actresses here seem boxed in by their roles.
Though Casa de los Babys is a low-key effort, one that stops as suddenly as if Sayles turned off the camera and ambled away, it asks questions worth pondering.
With the help of his cast, Sayles fashions Babys into a passionately interesting social discourse. He slips in touches of irony, and beautiful moments of raw sentiment.
A raw slice of life that goes beyond the obvious external issues.
dramatically inert
Casa de los Babys is probably the biggest misstep of [Sayles's] long career
Sayles keeps crankin' 'em out: socially conscious, diversity-embracing ensemble pieces... This one is minor and sketchy...
A jumble of ideas and stunning performances that never coalesce into a satisfying movie.
Even an uneven Sayles film is superior to most such Hollywood dramas.
It is a story without a story, helpless and wandering, enjoyable for its parts but failing as a whole.
Sayles . . . can keep the politics front and center while still maintaining a fierce humanity at the core
A drama whose characters are so sketchy and unpleasant they keep tripping over the movie's one-note ideas.
If most of the characters seem underdeveloped, they are also convincing and interesting.
More intelligent and substantive than it is entertaining.
The topic--international adoption--is certainly compelling and the performances convincing, but as a drama, Casa de Los Babys never quite comes to life.
Sincerity is no substitute for dramatic excellence, and in this case Sayles's ambition proves far greater than his accomplishment.
Sayles is the ultimate "on the other hand" guy, which may make for more thoughtful understanding but which is difficult to translate to film, a medium better suited to the dynamic, the opinionated, and the one-sided.
Casa de los Babys has a grander scope than Sayles was either able to afford or invest enough time in developing.
Unfortunately, once the situation is established, Sayles sits on it. The women wait, the workers work and a dramatic arc is not part of the equation.
Light on plot but full of heartbreaking, subtle moments.
Sayles, a rare screenwriter who consistently creates thoughtful roles for grown-up women, has outdone himself here.
Suggests a filmmaker whose vision has become reductive, motivated not by all-embracing interest but by an ultimately self-protective intent not to surrender to blind emotion in any form.
A collaborative triumph in which the right actresses in the right roles respond to Sayles' ever-gentle touch.
Turns out to be yet another movie that encourages liberal urbanites to smirk at red-state knuckle-draggers.
Though it should be longer, we're not especially unhappy that it isn't, for being around these women gets tedious.
[Sayles] does more showing than his usual telling, without forsaking his interest in people and the histories and societies that have created their problems.
If Casa de los Babys isn't necessarily a fully realized film, it's still a deeply felt glimpse into dizzyingly complex political and psychological forces that shape the most crucial decisions of a woman's life.
Strong performances.
a simpler disappointment than Sunshine State, with its obvious political statements and shallowly drawn characters
This is a strong ensemble but the story kind of has that 'After School Special for Grown-ups' feel - instant histories but not a lot of development for the characters.
Some marvelous individual scenes overcome Sayles occasional overplayed hand. Casa proves to be a sad and delicately wrought gem.
Sayles sees like a documentarian, showing us the women, listening to their stories, inviting us to share their hopes and fears and speculate about their motives.
For all his patient, accumulative storytelling, Sayles yields little that doesn't feel trite or overly schematic.
Indie icon John Sayles gives us yet another minor masterpiece that looks at love and want among the haves and have-nots.
A powerfully written, well-acted movie that tackles an unusual and compelling subject.
It's a huge ensemble and a vast sociopolitical canvas with which Sayles is playing here, and, like all his movies, it's quite absorbing as it's happening.
[Sayles] concentrates on the six tiresome Americans ... at the expense of their Latin hosts who, to a one, are much much more interesting and worthy of our time.
A stirring exploration of the overwhelming desire for motherhood, the whims of fate, clashing cultures and what happens when exporting children becomes part of a country's economy.
Sayles does what he does best, opening a window onto a slice of life so believable, you'd swear the movie was a documentary if you didn't know better.
A tender, moderately satisfying essay on fate, the haves and have-nots of the world, parental responsibility, opportunism, and modern family dismemberment and values.
[Casa de los Babys] wanders and stumbles in search of a center, but it finds plenty of goods along the way.
It is a movie of remarkable performances.
Eschewing all sentiment, avoiding all pathos, keeping his film and most of the women hard as nails, [Sayles] manages to tell a compelling story.
Sayles's latest clash between over- and underprivileged cultures focuses solely on the issue of motherhood, but within this one issue he explores the widest range of emotions.
Compelling, if not entirely satisfying
John Sayles might be examining quirks in legal and political systems, but he's still capable of making seemingly arcane subject matter engrossing and occasionally moving.
Alternately frustrating and disappointing, Casa de los Babys is truly one of Sayles' lesser efforts.
In this single film, [Sayles] includes more vividly drawn female characters than I've seen in a year's worth of major releases.
It won't win [Sayles] many converts, but even the least of his efforts is worth a look.
Its greatest achievement is to insist that we, the relatively lucky, do what fear and pride seldom allow us to do -- to venture back to life's opening scene, respinning the wheel and replaying the lottery.
One pines for the return of Sayles' great writing, especially given a flavorful taste of it in a heartfelt third-act monologue delivered by Lynch.
The film feels more like a thesis than vivid drama.
There isn't a moment with this group you don't want to be watching, yet the dialogue floats by in wisps.
[I]t's beautifully written but it feels so written ...
Though ultimately something less than the sum of its parts, the film's performances are reason enough to see it.
Gets bogged down in bad dialogue, wasted acting and the most un-Saylesian thing of all, outright ignorance.
A pretty dry and unengaging social treatise compared with Sayles' last movie, the underrated Sunshine State.
Its high points notwithstanding, Casa de Los Babys generally fails to make a lasting impression.
Admittedly, mediocre Sayles is still watchable, but, relative to expectations, Casa de los Babys is a disappointment of significant proportions.
As rich in ideas as it is in fine acting, Los Babys is another smart movie from a smart man who will likely never make a blockbuster.
A worthwhile therapy session that all genders can enjoy.
Hobbled by weak argumentation, a character who winds up a complete muddle, and Sayles's inclination to romanticize Latin American revolutionary types, Casa is as mixed an effort as the filmmaker has essayed in some time.
An inarguably powerful film
The movie's even-handed portrayal of two cultures uneasily transacting the most personal business resonates with truth.
While we'd like it if the film had managed to be less schematic, had succeeded in fulfilling its sociological aims in more humanistic terms, we're willing to cut it slack because it sometimes seems no one else is even trying.
Topical director John Sayles thoughtfully illustrates two sides of the burgeoning foreign baby trade in this documentary-style film.
A lean yet unconvincing character study set in an unnamed South American country.
Casa de los Babys is another fine example of writer and director John Sayles' sensitive and heart-felt exploration of cross-cultural tensions and misunderstandings.
Casa de los Babys has too few compelling moments, however, and too little momentum to sustain viewer interest.
One of the better films you'll see this fall.
A subject more suited to docu treatment.
The digging into each of these women's lives stays shallow and seldom uncovers anything unexpected.
The film's nameless South American pit-stop brings to mind the same ambient, allegorical landscapes of Matewan devastated by the specters of imperialism.
a picture with a situation instead of a plot
...a better-than-average slice-of-life kitchen-sink drama that benefits substantially from Compston's star-making performance.
Under Loach's deft hand, it feels indisputably real ... An undeniable downer, but hellaciously well acted, brimming with compassion, and relevant in a way that doesn't chafe.
Hollywood has manufactured a number of coming of age films of varying quality, yet it's difficult to think of one that tops this powerful character study
You want Liam to succeed. You want a happy ending. You want to try to understand the heavy Scottish accents without reading the subtitles mercifully provided by Loach.
Another fine Loach film that refuses to sentimentalize the plight of the poor and disenfranchised. Compston is a real find.
The story is extremely powerful. This is a very depressing film, but also very well crafted.
Its bleak tale was lightly delivered and filled with a wry Scottish wit and a poignant social realism that rang true.
Sweet Sixteen is a wonderfully bittersweet effort, and one of Loach's best works.
Loach tends to get a little preachy, but his skill is undeniable. His messages strike harsh and true.
Using mostly unknown and first-time actors, Loach spins a passable coming-of-age tale, which should please his fans and provides a diversion for the rest of us.
There are some terrific performances. Scottish TV star Compston makes Liam quite sympathetic; despite his character's many failings, you want the best for him and his family.
The combination of its casual violence, its street sense and a loose cinematography makes the film feel like a documentary.
Heartbreaking but ruthlessly honest, a mirror held up to contemporary life.
Despite this film's title, don't expect something light and fluffy.
From its gripping immediacy to its strong cast of unknowns, Sweet Sixteen feels almost like a documentary. Loach and screenwriter Paul Laverty keep an evenhanded focus on harsh truths, and avoid melodrama and grandstanding.
Don't get too close; don't help out; let them make their own mistakes
There's a profane but strangely tender rawness to this sometimes brutal movie, anchored by Compston's remarkably assured debut performance.
A raw movie, but it relies on the natural appeal of its main character and the skill with which Loach creates a thoroughly believable environment.
It may be Loach's saddest film.
[Liam's] bleak story is a compelling one, but more tiring than inspiring.
A lacerating portrait of an abused, impoverished youth drawn to a life of crime and violence...startlingly fresh and deeply moving.
Compston's ferocious, unself-conscious performance is a revelation.
The film is so alive, the performances so urgent and convincing, that it's as if Loach had just discovered the subject matter.
To use Liam's words, it's f-ing brilliant.
Director Ken Loach often examines the lives of Britain's downtrodden, but in Sweet Sixteen his bleakness becomes too familiar.
The movie's performances have a simplicity and accuracy that is always convincing.
The mission they undertook long ago -- the director once said it is 'to clarify the lives of ordinary people' -- has never seemed clearer, and the unpleasant realities they uncover here strike us with blunt force.
Shattered my heart into a million little pieces.
A hard film to shake and makes us think and think again.
A beautiful, grim tale.
Ideology is manifested as empathy, rather than polemic, and the result is a lean, powerful little film that's more about people than politics.
It's a harsh, terrible story of a rite of passage, a boy's love and a journey to hell, and it's so brilliantly told that we feel the cold above and the all-consuming flames beneath.
Not for all tastes, but it is a very good film about a depressing topic.
A grim and gripping story.
The casting is impeccable, the dialogue raw and the impenetrable Glaswegian brogue is wisely translated with English subtitles.
Loach and frequent writing partner Paul Laverty are not greatly growing here, but once again their integrity is sterling.
Resembles classics like Hawks' Scarface, Walsh's White Heat, and any of a handful of James Cagney or Edward G. Robinson gangster films.
A classic.
Mixes the bitter with the sweet and stays in the mind because it refuses to succumb to the cynicism that surrounds its protagonist.
It feels like the backstory behind half the world's wayward kids.
[A] working class tragedy of mythic proportions, bristling with the inchoate rage of an underclass that . . . wouldn't know how to look up even if it knew that it could
Compston's performance and the downer milieu, presented with appropriate paint-peeling profanity, are more than enough to keep an audience riveted and ultimately moved close to tears.
There's a raw, uncensored power here -- in the film in general and in newcomer Compston in particular.
At once a well spun story, a poignant and moving character study, and an indictment of contemporary society's indifference to the plight of the underprivileged.
[I]t's a tough film to watch, but so well done.
Employing, as he's sometimes done in the past, a cast of mostly first-time film actors, Loach here whips up a sad but deeply engrossing tale of an adolescent Scottish lad's determination to salvage his unsavable family.
Confident, uncompromising and blisteringly realistic, Sweet Sixteen is a gritty and immediate film yet it goes right to the emotions.
Loach may be best known for staunchly political films like Bread and Roses, but in many ways Sweet Sixteen is a throwback to his other pictures, grittier slice-of- life films like My Name Is Joe.
It has a humane grasp of the pleasures kids create even under hellish conditions and of their adaptive capacity to craft a life out of the materials available.
...better than anything mainstream that I have seen all year.
. . . a dark, heart-wrenching masterpiece from British director Ken Loach . . .
Sweet Sixteen is a gritty film directed by Ken Loach about the spiritual dynamics of hope in the life of a resourceful and brave teenager living in poverty in Glasgow, Scotland.
Mr. Loach once again reaffirms his honored position as one of the world's most passionate and compassionate filmmakers.
It's impossible to tell the experienced from the inexperienced among Loach's casts.
Mr. Compston's untamed star power gives the movie a heart, a sweetness that makes the title heartfelt and not just cheaply ironic.
Ken Loach's most effective film since My Name Is Joe.
Compston, in his first role, is riveting because of the sense of authenticity and hopelessness he brings to the part.
[Loach] allows us to look into lives we would otherwise ignore.
Loach's film is an enormously sympathetic conflation of two pet themes: the effect of grinding poverty on the ever weakening working class and his nation's all-too vulnerable youth.
One more feather in the proudly proletarian cap of Ken Loach.
Loach has made more memorable films, such as Raining Stones and Ladybird Ladybird, but his dramatic sense remains strong and his social conscience is absolutely unstoppable.
A story of particularly streamlined, eloquent despair.
Loach's latest adheres so closely to his long-established narrative pattern -- overdetermined case study crowned with a morbid jolt -- that viewers might underestimate its wit, empathy, and careful characterizations.
Bursting with the kind of street energy that many films promise and few deliver.
While Larry Clark sensationalizes the plight of children, British neo-realist Ken Loach merely presents. His portraits of the working class don't condescend to the struggles and determinations of working class life.
The film boasts sensational naturalistic performances and a raw edge that is undeniable. I don't think I can tell you that it's entertaining. It draws blood.
An uncompromising look at life, with all its questionable triumphs and irreversible consequences, performed by a cast that is virtually untrained and entirely genuine, with a fully engaging performance by Martin Compston.
This film resonates with truth and feeling without ever preaching.
Stretches in this film do as good a job of evoking youth as the work of Francois Truffaut.
Loach invests a level of exhilaration into his wayward youths that honours the halcyon highs of childhood even in the midst of privation and decay.
Outstanding film making and the director's best film in years.
Campston, who has never acted before, is a natural.
Often too overdone for superior farce.
An outstanding gallery of connivers
The non-musical version of Chicago. It's fun and cynical.
A frequently entertaining precursor of "Chicago" with Rogers at her most charming. Let's just say she gives Renee Zellwegger a run for her money.
I cannot imagine a film as amusing, biting, erudite, witty, and just plain fun as Roxie Hart being made today, and that is a terribly depressing thought.
Rogers seemed lost.
Key revelation is that Shore is a bitter, unpleasant, petty, humourless little man--and that his stoned weasel song and dance isn't doing that great a job of hiding it.
...the movie turns into a game of spot the cameo more than anything else.
Will probably matter only slightly to Shore's fans, but this patchy film will hardly deliver Shore the crossover breakout he so sorely desires nor the admiration due a talented film auteur.
While it is indeed pretty funny, the darkness got lost somewhere in the shuffle.
Shore's contempt extends well beyond himself to tar his fans and just about anyone who might be in the audience.
It works as a throwaway joke -- occasionally funny and often shamelessly tasteless. And it also helps if you like Shore.
A very funny, blatantly satirical and insolently honest look into the life of the former it boy.
A delightful surprise that'll raise as many questions as it does bust guts.A very funny, blatantly satirical and insolently honest look into the life of the former it boy 
Perhaps this will be the calling card that welcomes Shore back to fold... or maybe it's just a suitable farewell.
While catching a Pauly Shore movie might rank somewhere slightly below self-tracheotomy on the To-Do lists of most people, I'm about to tell you something quietly shocking -- this is actually one of the funnier movies I've seen in a while.


Dumb is one thing, but this sorry attempt at action-comedy from stuntman turned director Steve Boyum is in an intelligence-deprived class all its own.
If all of this sounds ridiculous, it is.
Could've spared me the introduction
As I have said in the past, I have barely been able to contain my excitement in the recent avalanche of quality Disney fare. Not.
Hello, Deedles. Terrible to meet you.
Will adults enjoy this film? Some might be amused by the crazy situations and verbal and visual outrageousness--though they probably won't admit it.
The film is peppered with political jokes, bikini-clad babes, and fart gags, as if it couldn't decide what audience it's aiming at.
Exercise your consumer power. Don't rent this trash.
You'll have much better luck finding a good spot to surf in Wyoming than finding entertainment in Meet the Deedles.
This movie is awful... but it was never even remotely close to being funny. Or good. Or even indifferent.
There's an awful lot of dead time in this picture, and while it's a bit too sweet and innocent to utterly despise, there's nothing there to really like.
Steve Van Wormer and Paul Walker, as Stew and Phil, give lifeless performances. The only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named Petey.
OK, this recycling thing has gotten way out of hand. Paper and aluminum products are one thing, but rehashing old movie ideas isn't going to help the environment in any way.
Too dumb for adults, too bad-habit-inducing for children.
This is the type of movie so desperate for fun it tries to bully you into it.
One of the worst movies that has ever been conceived. I loathed and despised absolutely every pathetic second of it.
If Disney execs are interested in salvaging what remains of the studio's reputation -- and its dignity -- they might stop for just one moment to think about what Uncle Walt might say.
The Full Monty carries beneath its feelgood trajectory an exquisite air of gallows humour mixed with a dash of melancholy and a wee sprinkling of empathetic leftist politics.
Its social commentary, its unlikely but charismatic cast, and heartfelt but humorous writing has made it a film that many people find hard to forget.
The Full Monty finds both pathos and laughs in its farfetched conceit, avoiding the pitfalls of sappiness and shtik. Odds are good you'll exit grinning.
Largely sweet and insubstantial, not so much "funny" as it is charming and grin-making.
Who knew male strippers could be so sweet?
Leaves the audience smiling and giggling, all the while painting a convincing and touching portrait of the downtrodden in England.
The premise of this British comedy, out-of-work male strippers, is contrived and calculated, but the film exudes charm and optimism. 
A crowd-pleasing blue-collar comedy, half funny and half sad.
...a sweet, humane bit of entertainment that - unlike formulaic Hollywood movies - doesn't condescend to its audience.
The briskly paced, high-spirited movie is complemented by a funny score that includes the old disco hit You Sexy Thing.
A funny and fetching comedy about the resiliency of the human spirit.
The only reason it's matinee price instead of full price is that I felt that it all went too well and too American-style easily.
The Full Monty is feel-good comedy with none of the pejorative hints of innocuous blandness that term so often implies.
It's a familiar show-biz routine but one that's spangled with happy surprises and sharp acting.
Even the full monty as promised, was not delivered.
A film that tries to mix full-out Brit humor with some deep messages about men trying to get their feelings of self-worth back. Unfortunately, it's oil and water.
It all comes off this summer.
Often silly and so utterly awful from acting to sound mixing, but it embraces its trappings by injecting as much softcore sex and nudity as humanly possible.
For a bikini action movie, it's not much. It's a rental that you'll probably fast forward through.
Complex psychological thriller about a terrorizing NYC cop gone amok.
It has, in the form of Audrey Hepburn and Alan Arkin, two of the very best performances in the genre's history.
Nail-biting until the end.
A classic and unforgettable thriller.
Superior thriller with one dynamite shock scene.
a perfect example of how mood, atmosphere, music, and direction can overcome plot weaknesses
It's practically certain to lull moviegoers into a pleasant state of dreamy bliss.
The heart of the film's charm is Sandra Bullock.
[Bullock] knows one of the secrets of doing romantic comedy: treating the romance as a good joke.
Compared to While You Were Sleeping, even the half-baked scenario of the Marisa Tomei-Robert Downey Jr. romance Only You looks witty and inventive.
The movie seems better suited to a holiday release. While You Were Sleeping arrives at the peak of spring, the only season that can make Christmas seem like an unwelcome visitor.
While You Were Sleeping may not be a film for the ages. It likely won't even rank among the presummer season's biggest hits. But it is worth noting, for it may mark the birth of a star.
This setup is ludicrous, but actually it's the most credible thing in this whole sorry, dishonest film.
It's Bullock's first shot at a role in which she plays second fiddle neither to males nor special effects. And she turns out to be every bit as delightful as anyone might have expected.
It's a long and frustrating wait, but While You Were Sleeping delivers all you can ask of a romantic comedy: the deluxe payoff.
A cute premise with engaging leads but little else to keep you awake.
It plays like a movie dreamed up by people in a studio marketing department who'd decided to bare their souls.
What the movie does offer is a delectable performance by Bullock, who is funny and vulnerable and almost makes you buy her character's diving into this charade.
This smartly scripted Cinderella love story is crammed with charm and the expert direction of Jon Turteltaub hits all the right emotional buttons.
This year's Sleepless In Seattle. Only better.
Bullock just about knocks herself exhausted being winsome and lovable.
Appealing family comedy with old-fashioned feel.
This appealing romantic comedy catapulted the ever-likeable sandra Bullock into major stardom
The film's casual warmth may make you tolerate some of the shortcomings -- especially since Bullock seems to be having such a fine time with her first starring role.
A mild romantic comedy rooted in class anxiety, but it's nice to see perennial loser-in-love Pullman get some. Respect, that is.
Director Jon Turteltaub has a smooth style suited to classic farce and knows just how to pace the material to accentuate the positive.
Fortunately, it's smart enough not to outstay its welcome.
It's cutesy enough to serve as a pleasant time-waster for those hungering for blue-collar romance in Chi town.
This is the first romantic comedy I've seen in a long time that, by the third act, doesn't forget about being funny.
As cute and cuddly a bedtime story as anyone could wish for.
Surprisingly half-decent high-concept chick-flick material.
Classic Sandra Bullock romantic comedy.
A welcome ray of sunshine.
A modern romantic comedy that actually works.
Bullock, with her attractive but unglamorous image, gives humanity and a little bit of realism to an otherwise fairytale plot.
This is a formula film, but it has the kind of good cheer and fine tuning that occasionally give slickness a good name.
Turteltaub wisely plays his strength by giving us extended close-ups of Bullock, who is at once canny and vulnerable, rising above this workmanlike comedy.
A cute, throwaway romantic comedy.
Bullock is a genuinely engaging performer, which at least gives the treacle some minty freshness.
A bright, charming romance.
A perfect example of this unoriginal-but-enjoyable type of film making.
A feel-good film, warm and good-hearted.
A consistently adorable, if utterly predictable, piece of fluff.
A sappy, negligible, thoroughly innocuous romantic comedy vehicle for Sandra Bullock.
Cringe-inducing moments abound.
Director Jon Turteltaub's movie is just plain bad.
Interesting twist on the romantic triangle.
Romantic, sweet without being cloying, and light on its feet.
A gem of a movie.
As this season's gentle, feel-good romantic amusement, it works quite well.
Predictable at best and just plain dull most of the time.
A lighthearted, charming nougat for romantics.
A few lines, owing to great delivery by terrific actors, raise this a few notches on the comedy scale.
Recaptures the true spirit of the best kind of modern fairy tale.
If it has no great virtues, at least it has no great faults either.
It's just a life, full of strangeness and beauty, abounding with some things and lacking others.
Ranges from acidic to surprisingly thought-provoking, disturbing, and nuanced.
At first, The Great Beauty plays like an enjoyably exuberant satire of modern Rome. Yet slowly, grandeur starts shining through the decadence.
I'd like to say there was a plot, only there isn't: it is simply a baroque and beautiful reflection of a five-decade romance with Rome.
Unfortunately, it seems to expect the audience to find it a revelation that all-night partying often conceals an underlying sadness.
... a nostalgic journey - fantastic and surreal... [Full review in Spanish]
The Great Beauty is an alleged condemnation of the decadence of Rome and its high society, but inasmuch as it approaches coherence at all.
Funny and sad, poignant and profound, elegant and elegiac, ambitious and ambiguous, The Great Beauty is one of the most utterly enjoyable movies I've seen in years.
Sorrentino's heady, vivid yet wearily melancholic musing on midlife crisis submerges you in sumptuousness until you emerge, blinking, as if from some impossibly glamorous party.
A richly symbolic meditation on aging, mortality and precious time wasted.
Sometimes too overblown, surreal and obtuse for its own good, director Paolo Sorrentino's film is nonetheless an exquisitely composed portrait of vapidity and decline.
Exceptional, mature film dazzles, offers haunting insights.
The Great Beauty" is a great romance: a man and a city and a love that cannot be consummated but which will consume you surely. Somewhere, Baz Luhrmann weeps. 
If it sounds a bit ponderous, well, maybe it is, but it's also smart, warm-hearted and sumptuously shot.
'The Great Beauty' is certainly striking, but too often what it's striking are poses.
A mysterious, sensual prism through which to view our own shortcomings and longings.
The Great Beauty boils over with shapeless disdain, aimed everywhere but where it should be
As a parody of Italian cinema, it's tedious. Except we're supposed to be taking this seriously. As if.
I don't know that I've ever seen a film in which the visual glory on the screen was so at odds with the philosophy evident in the screenplay.
For those of us who spend most of our time still dealing with rent and health care, it is a two-hour journey into ideas and emotions we only wish there were time to consider. That's a reason to go to the movies.
The Great Beauty will become one of those movies that will be discussed over and over again in future college courses.
Wild set-pieces and rueful observations are the stock in trade of this Italian film by one of the modern masters of cinema, Paolo Sorrentino.
There's little to discover in Paolo Sorrentino's satiric vision of Rome, except perhaps, that some cities just look better than others while entertaining themselves to hell.
Sorrentino's film may flit between vignettes of extravagance and eccentricity, but more is always toiling underneath.
With inevitable debt to Fellini, Sorrentino's nods as reverential as they are wry.
I can't remember when a film last gave me such a surge of pure pleasure -- no, outright euphoria -- as The Great Beauty.
...a sumptuous elegy.
Cut from similarly sexy and satirical cloth as Federico Fellini's masterworks a half-century ago, Paolo Sorrentino's movie glides like reverie, probing the emptiness that can result from living a full life.
The Great Beauty is an utterly ravishing portrait of listless luxuriance, a fantasy of decadent wealth and beauty that evokes Fellini's La Dolce Vita by way of Baz Luhrmann.
A spectacular film, as messy, strange and funny as a dream, with hedonistic party scenes to rival The Great Gatsby.
The intelligently observed and staggeringly beautiful Italian foreign-language Oscar nominee is about life, death and the search for the things that give meaning to both.
Sorrentino has managed to build a loving and distinctive work on the foundation of an indolent, often self-loathing social strata. 
A riotous film that finds depth, clarity and refreshment in even the shallowest of pools.
The title is about as spot on as you can get and this is ultimately a film that raises the search for beauty in this world to a stylish art.
This is quite simply glorious filmmaking.
For all its high-brow posturing, this film is tedious. 
It's not surprising that Oscar voters fell for the charms of this Italian odyssey, since it's essentially a love letter to Fellini and Rome.
An elegant, existentially enigmatic meditation on opulence and decadence.
The title feels appropriate because this is a film to be enjoyed as much for its beautiful imagery as its stimulating storyline.
One of the most 'Italian' films I've ever seen; passionate, satirical, and sumptuous
It's not often that we feel ravaged by a film, but The Great Beauty is a ravager, a spectacular odyssey of emotion and intellect and sensuality through the rich, contradictory and self indulgent world of The Eternal City
Uncovers both the superficial and the profound in this exploration of life, death and the inspirations that keep things interesting
It's high-minded, dealing in heady truths about life, art, narcissism, creativity and spirituality. It's subtitled. Everyone speaks Italian. Also, nothing explodes.
A little La Dolce Vita, bits of Last Year at Marienbad, and flashes of Russian Ark.
Though there's precious little drama, Sorrentino's skills as an image-maker are indisputable.
Frenetic portrait of Rome's elite recalls La Dolce Vita and Ulysses
An Italian film that dazzles the eye
It's a beauty, all right. It's more a style show than a deep philosophical treatise, but with surfaces this sleek and faces this interesting, I'll take style over substance any day.
A seductive, woeful meditation on phony efforts and the challenge of living for the moment.
Even those who find it overstuffed, opaque and derivative will be bowled over by its sheer pictorial extravagance and visual sheen.
Go ahead. Soak up the Beauty. It's one of the best films of the year.
Sometimes all you want from a movie is more. Sorrentino's opulent carnival of modern Rome is the most more you could ever hope to see.
Leave your iPhone at home for this one or you will buy a plane ticket to Rome before you can escape the theatre.
Paolo Sorrentino's overwrought, Felliniesque opus ...
The Great Beauty" is drop-dead gorgeous, a film that is luxuriously, seductively, stunningly cinematic.
It's exceptional work from Servillo, matched well with Ferilli, whose visual contribution to the film is profoundly sensual. 
As this existential odyssey draws to a close, it sews itself up with the aplomb that only a confident, controlled filmmaker can marshal.
If the antics of the beau monde disgust or exhaust you, stay away from Sorrentino's film; look no further, on the other hand, if you wish to know whether, where, and in what guise the spirit of Fellini remains at work-and, better still, at play.
The Great Beauty" is Italy's submission for best foreign language film and is one of the best of the year. It works on many levels including its excellent character study by Toni Servillo.
The title is fitting for this visually dazzling Italian epic.
The melancholy in this film is just as trumped up as the frenzy.
The Great Beauty is a subtly daring cinematic high-wire act - an entire film built around one character's unrealized, unspecified yearning. And it might just be the most unforgettable film of the year.
Sorrentino's juxtaposition of contemporary Roman indulgence and the Eternal City's place in history's imagination makes for a bittersweet epic in which a solitary character, Jep, stands in for the director, and us, and experiences an epiphany.
Sorrentino is an exceptional visual stylist and the imagery within this film is startling...
The grand tradition of city symphonies, films tailored to celebrate the mood and feeling of their urban settings, lives on here.
Never have cynicism and disillusion seemed more intoxicating than in "The Great Beauty," which is such an overwhelming visual and auditory experience that its elements of cautionary moral fable threaten to get lost amid the gorgeousness.
There's an exhilarating sadness to it all that amounts to cinematic poetry.
It's resplendent, it's ravishing.
While it is definitely Fellini-esque, it's also a crystallization of Sorrentino's own distinctive style.
The comparisons to Fellini have been plentiful, but The Great Beauty is very much its own thing.
A deliriously alive movie, "The Great Beauty" is the story of a man, a city, a country and a cinema, though not necessarily in that order.
A fantastic journey around contemporary Rome and a riot of lush imagery juggling past and present, sacred and profane, gorgeous and grotesque.
The over-length isn't unnecessary - this is a lush film meant to be savored - but even the intentional redundancies start to feel redundant.
Many flights, lunges, glides and pokes of the camera in these sequences reveal the magnificence and overpowering weight of Rome's past and survey the casual surrealism and rich grotesquerie of its present.
It's a glorious experience, one that blends both compassionate dismay and wry delight over Italy's own, eternal excess.
Once the film settles down, it becomes a rollicking yet melancholy tour of a city so spectacular and historic that it paralyzes its inhabitants.
A virtuosic cinematic achievement of epic proportions, Paolo Sorrentino's formalized comment on modern-day Rome is a visual and satirical feast. 
The Great Beauty soars into that rarified atmosphere where art, entertainment, travelogue and circus collide in a great, beautiful mash-up of ideas and imagery.
The pleasures of the film, as with La Dolce Vita, are experiential, and it's best received as a sensual rush, revealed through the eyes of a protagonist who has no control over it.
Beneath the beautiful surface and indulgence of Sorrentino's The Great Beauty, there is an insightful, intriguing satire about what it means to create art that elevates itself beyond shallow eye candy.
In blatant reference to La dolce vita, The Great Beauty is an apt if lazily postmodern response to Fellini's question: how can we convert nihilism from an existential plague into a decent way of life?
Sorrentino's vision is the size of Rome itself, and his confidence is dazzling.
It's a virtuoso piece of filmmaking featuring a magnificently jaded Toni Servillo.
Rome in all its splendor and superficiality, artifice and significance, becomes an enormous banquet too rich to digest in one sitting in Paolo Sorrentino's densely packed, often astonishing The Great Beauty.
Paolo Sorrentino's film is really just a huge turn-on that has the bad manners to go sour, succumbing to its own self-delusions of moral/political grandeur. 
The Il Divo director returns to his native Rome for an exquisite blowout set amidst the ageing dilettantes living in the city's prosperous bohemian enclave.
A VIP tour of a secret, horribly fashionable world that one wouldn't want to linger in yet can't help but find fascinating.
The city looks good enough to dive into. If only the humans in the frame weren't so shallow.
An eye-ravishing meditation on first love, squandered talent, the eternal beauty of Rome and a life wasted on hedonistic excess.
Sorrentino's film is both emphatic and proportionate in its methods - a palpable maturing for this director.
Stylishly directed and beautifully shot, The Great Beauty is an emotionally engaging and superbly acted Italian drama that plays like a modern day version of Fellini's La Dolce Vita.
A simply breathtaking work of art with a very human, intensely cinematic heart.
It's Fellini in Vegas.
It lingers in the imagination long after more disciplined, well-behaved films have faded.
The superb Servillo - who, when he doesn't have the look of Dennis Norden, is the spit of a lusty Sid James - is the perfect match for Sorrentino's wry vision ...
Sorrentino is so often compared to Fellini that it feels right that he has made the city of 'La Dolce Vita' the focus for this heady, beautiful, entrancing film.
Sumptuous and self-indulgent, Sorrentino's latest is a Fellini-like feast for the eyes.
Splashes of overstatement aside, the ambition intoxicates.
The film is defiantly short on structure, but the beautiful chaos is so chaotically beautiful that only the surliest viewer will think to complain.
A maximalist's delight.
A vivid glimpse, both funny and deeply unsettling, of a Berlusconi-era Italy rotting below its luscious-looking surface.
Sorrentino's direction is as crisp as it has ever been, telling one of his more relatable tales.
Just like Fellini's grand spectacles, La Grande Bellezza washes over you in series of scenes, visages, sensations and impressions, and although in this case it doesn't quite gel into a cohesive whole, it's nonetheless a journey worth taking...
Referencing without imitating Fellini, Sorrentino offers an amusing update on Italian society at the end of a cycle.
When the credits began to roll at the press screening, some critics rose to their feet and just stared dumbly at the screen. I'm happy to admit I was among them.
This movie looks and feels superb, it is pure couture cinema. But there is also a excess of richness and bombast and for all its sleekness I felt that the spark of emotion was being hidden, and there is a kind of frustration in the operatic sadness.
Dead Presidents may eventually box itself into a narrative dead end, but its muscular engagement of weighty themes and explosive situations makes it a powerful drama.
The intense and excessive climactic set piece caper scene is the only true highlight in a superficial film.
Platoon lite with a bitter ending that doesn't work in its favor...
Significant as both history and film art, this gloomy tale has no "convenient" villains and refuses to indulge in stereotypes, instead focusing on larger forces, such as racism and political apathy.
There are intriguing aspects to this yarn, and the brothers can choreograph a scene, but you get the impression that they learned all they know from other movies, the blood and guts is gratuitous...
Excellent performances, a great soundtrack, and the Hughes' technical virtuosity make it worth a look.
Talent of Hughes brothers deserves viewer's attention even when their results don't meet such high standards.
Like those overreaching sophomore term papers we can all laugh at now, this disappointing film may free the Hughes brothers to move on to fresher, more inspired work.
Unfortunately, the filmmakers were overzealous in trying to cover a variety of issues, leaving the story choppy and without resolution in places.
All directors experience a "second-movie slump," and as far as slumps go, this one is more than honorable.
Made with fluid skill and a passion for storytelling, its tale of how the Vietnam War and American society affect a black Marine remains accessible while confounding expectations.
People of any color can sympathize with the plight of Anthony Curtis and understand, if not agree with, the eventual choices life forces him to make.
Here is a film that feels incomplete, as if its last step is into thin air. Scene by scene you feel its skill, but you leave the theater wondering about the meaning of it all.
Dead Presidents is like a shotgun blast in the face: It's that powerful, that lethal, that ugly.
The movie makes its point, and continues to hit you over the head with it.
The Hughes Brothers' ambition is admirable, but, as with their main character, ambition gets the better of them.
The level of exaggerated violence and gore is so gross and disgusting that the film takes on a horror-movie look, which tends to undermine its intentions as a thoughtful exploration of troubled times for blacks.
Messy but mesmerizing.
Tate gives a strong performance as Anthony but much of this movie unfolds predictably -- the kind of action you've seen a hundred times in movies before and a thousand times on television.
It features lots of heartache, a downer of an ending, and even some nasty bloodshed. But in the end, it just feels like they forgot to add something in there, but it still comes out as a pretty good film nonetheless.
The movie is a mess, but a glorious, big-hearted, beautifully acted one.
Silver Linings Playbook may well be my favourite movie of the year. Go see it. Like, right now.
Cooper manages to show that he is still capable of doing more than his traditional throw-away, comedic roles.
Although the story sometimes drags and the predictable rom-com ending feels too pat, "Silver Linings Playbook" scores some intriguing insights into what mental illnesses we consider socially acceptable.
Thanks to some truly terrific acting and amusing subplots with Pat's parents, the story works. 
Playing outspoken, emotionally damaged young widow Tiffany, Lawrence is a firecracker, a powder keg, a force of nature.
Silver Linings Playbook is difficult to like, and too long, with a climactic dance scene that is filmically botched, which is fine with the movie because according to the plot it did not have to be good to succeed.
Russell's smart, snappy script is delivered by a top-notch cast, including two thoroughly likeable and well-matched leads.
Despite the film's flaws, Russell excels at creating a community of misfits around Pat and Tiffany.
Once Silver Linings Playbook gets close to Lawrence, it doesn't have to crowd her again...She holds up her head, breathes hard and glows.
Silver Linings Playbook gives us four performers to relish.
It's a challenging picture, but it runs the gamut of emotions so well that it's nearly impossible to dislike.
Wouldn't it be great if mental illness really was as adorable as it is in the movies?
Silver Linings Playbook" makes comic hay from bipolar illness, early death, sexual adventurism, self-improvement binges, football fanaticism, degenerate gambling and father-son estrangement, as one would expect from latter-day Russell movies.
But Silver Linings Playbook never induces a roll of the eyes, even if it never really surprises.
In an age when the concept of comedies about possible kinships between characters is dominated by sugary devices and contrivance, here at last is a movie about real situations, real people and the natural experiences that evolve from them.
A unique dramedy that stands heads and shoulders above most romantic films.
A wild mess, but what a mess it is.
It finds the gentle balance between traditional romantic comedy and artistic exploration of the laws of attraction.
A romantic comedy for people who don't like what Hollywood has been calling 'romantic comedies' these days. 
One of the most pleasurably offbeat experiences since the Philadelphia Eagles last enjoyed a winning season. 
A deft treatment of its delicate subject material and some remarkable performances that give the film both touching, raw, authentic emotion and a certain kinetic humor.
Jennifer Lawrence is the only aspect of the film that truly lives up to the trumped-up awards buzz and hype, but being a perfectly enjoyable light comedy with heaps of heart is no small feat in itself.
I love the work that deNiro and Lawrence do here, but ultimately all they do is prove the old adage that you can cover up a lot of problems with the script by hiring good actors. 
Silver Linings Playbook looks like your run-of-the-mill wacky family comedy, but it's an important film and a great one that deserves to sweep the awards it's nominated for.
Silver Linings Playbook is defined by the positive decisions that are made in the face of imperfection, desperation, and the desolate wasteland of your world in pieces.
Director David O. Russell forms a unique and incredible romance dramedy...
There is some charm to the story, but the final act is very neat, predictable, contrived, and not up to originality of the first two. 
Director David O. Russell is a little too chipper at times - breaking a restraining order is really no joke - but he brings a breeziness to this likeable tale of two misfits trying to make it work. 
It may be a Hollywood comedy, but it's one that feels beautifully alive.
On the surface Silver Linings Playbook is a raucous romantic comedy, but its real interests are superstition and delusion.
A volatile mix of familial drama and madcap comedy, infectious optimism and razor-wire wit, it's one of the most purely enjoyable films released in the past twelve months.
I suppose the phrase 'serious romantic comedy' sounds like a paradox. But that's exactly what 'Silver Linings Playbook' is: an intelligent, edgy dark comedy with romance at its core. 
This is a rom-com dressed up as an Oscar-baiting "dramedy". It's a good rom-com thanks to it's edge... but occasionally has the bad traits of a bad rom-com.
Silver Linings Playbook puts the "fun" in "dysfunction." And sure, that sounds glib, but actually, it's a rather extraordinary achievement. Especially when you're skirting on the edges of sanity. 
A bittersweet pill that's a mixture of an endearing family drama and modern romance that's an absolute delight. 
tows the line of conventional, feel-good Hollywood rom-com, albeit dressed up in just enough art-house quirk to make it feel like something slightly radical
A reminder that 'sanity' doesn't make your flaws any more orderly.
Silver Linings Playbook is a fine, funny film, and one that should charm viewers who haven't been tricked by all those Oscar nominations into anticipating it as some kind of world-changing work of art for the ages.
David O. Russell's latest buzz film straddles a fine line between farce and kitchen-sink drama before settling into a groove that gets under one's skin.
It starts to fray about halfway through as it shifts into a more conventional mode, taking on the usual trappings of the genre and making its way to a predictable resolution
Both charming and gritty... Cooper is edgy, while Lawrence is dynamite
If there's one reason why you should see this film, it's to admire the wonderful performances from Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Lawrence.
Cooper and Lawrence Shine in Linings.
Down-to-earth, funnier than you'd expect, and sympathetic toward its volatile, damaged characters. 
Just the sheer number of characters flitting around, each scrambling for plot space, gives an idea of just how frantic this movie can be. But Russell expertly uses all of it for maximum emotional -- and sometimes physical -- impact.
Yes, the marketing presents it as a big broad comedy -- and it certainly is -- but it's also a unique and involving tale of two outsiders who together find a way to get on with life after it has dealt them some bad hands.
It's tough to go wrong when your movie features two of the hottest stars, but director David O. Russell doesn't stop there.
When Lawrence and Cooper are together, their chemistry jumps and sparks and their rat-a-tat psycho-banter aims for Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell territory.
A cinematic high-wire act that audaciously blends edgy comedy together with genuinely touching drama into one of the most purely and surprisingly entertaining movies of the year.
Director David O. Russell, who adapted the novel, and his cast fill the story with engaging, believable characters.
Fine mainstream sitcom material.
Writer-director David O. Russell keeps the audience guessing. He takes unexpected twists and turns as if defying you to guess what will come next.
Consistently engaging, funny, and touching. This is the kind of picture in which two hours of running time whiz by in a flash.
Succeeds less on the merits of aesthetics than its willingness to give in to crowd-pleasing effervescence.
A quirky, dramatic and totally entertaining movie that features someof the best acting of the year.
Having gone from unknown actress to Oscar nominee to "The Hunger Games" in what seemed like a blink of an eye, Lawrence shows herself a master of timing and plays off Cooper brilliantly.
It's a rom-com that succeeds in revitalizing that discredited genre where so many others have failed, injecting it with the grit and emotion of realist drama rather than with amped-up whimsy or social satire or montages of people walking on the beach.
Silver Linings Playbook tells us that happily-ever-after may depend on finding people who coexist with our lunacy, not ones who can lead us out of it. In any case, it's crazy good.
Unique, beguiling, and occasionally frustrating: These descriptions equally apply to Silver Linings Playbook and its two central characters.
A crazy beaut of a comedy that brims with generosity and manages to circumvent predictability at every turn.
Russell keeps the outcome interesting; he knows that every silver lining has a cloud. 
The plot is clever and a bit unconventional. Bradley Cooper, Jennifer Lawrence and Robert De Niro all turn in wonderful performances in this very funny, very warm comedy.
During its rocky road to becoming a fractured love story, Silver Linings Playbook and its great ensemble cast run a funny, conflict-mined, even suspenseful path. It's a total winner.
Unlike the usual run-of-the-mill rom-com, this film bristles with life from the central core of the love story, to the quirky band of supporting players who add to the fun.
With "The Silver Linings Playbook," Russell picks up the traditional quirky rom-com genre and shakes it around, just to see what happens. Where it's going is fairly predictable; how it gets there isn't. 
A delightfully dysfunctional romantic comedy that's moving, funny and features just the right amount of crazy love. 
A tenderhearted tale about two terribly wounded souls who survive by grudgingly leaning on each other's shoulder. 
Your best bet for a movie that will entertain you, make you laugh and maybe even make you tear-up.
Russell handles the shifts in tone extremely effectively, and has sacrificed little of his sardonic edge in crafting something this superficially accessible.
Funny without being glib, serious without being pretentious or depressing, this is a mature movie with fully realized characters and fine performances.
Cooper gives a fine performance in a difficult role, but the one who really shines is Lawrence. Beautiful and sexy, she should be up for awards for this one. 
The movie itself is bipolar, full of mounting tension and hilarity like a classic screwball comedy, but it's all just barely skimming above a deep layer of darkness. 
delivers the kind of sharply timed laughs that Sturges and Wilder would've appreciated
There's a lot to like here and with strong performances all-around, a fresh script with characters that sound and act real. Add this film to your essential Oscar viewing game plan.
Loaded with pleasant surprises, this adaptation of Matthew Quick's novel combines romantic comedy, dysfunctional family woes and a sense of danger without ever losing its way.
One hundred percent predictable, yet strangely kind of fun.
It's honest you see; and honestly, as any fule no, is the bedrock of any successful relationship whether it be between two homo fictives or an audience and their movies.
...recalls the screwball psychiatry of Russell's earlier efforts, only this time the farce has heart.
'Screwball' is a slang term for 'crazy,' and perhaps this is what inspired writer-director David O. Russell to literalize as well as update the screwball comedy genre here...
When you make a movie set in Philly, you'd better get it right. Knowledgeable Eagles' fans may find Russell's sense of history maddening.
Writer-director David O. Russell's out-of-control filmmaking style is perfectly suited to a romantic-comedy involving mental illness, and he infuses the film with a sparky unpredictability that's echoed in the perfectly graded performances of the cast.
Smart, funny, great performances
Indeed the movie does make you feel quite good about humanity as the final credits roll.
...ultimately unable to wholeheartedly become the feel-good romantic comedy that Russell has clearly intended...
Offers the satisfaction you'd expect from a romcom and feel-good sports movie, but Lawrence and Cooper's delicate treatment of their characters makes it far more than a fleeting source of entertainment.
Silver Linings Playbook remains a very classy, acceptably funny slice of comic drama. But that eventual cop-out feels deeply unsatisfactory.
Easily overcomes its familiar beats, thanks to a real attention to character detail, a nonjudgmental approach to all the flaws plaguing the players, and a cast that works beautifully together.
Laugh out loud funny at times and gut wrenching at others with just the right amount of bleak material to be intriguing and not overly depressing, Silver Linings Playbook is one of the most genuine and human films of the year.
[H]alf thrilling, as it always is when a movie does well something The Movies don't typically try to do at all, and half uncomfortable, because it's not always easy to watch.
Love is not perfect, but it beats the next best thing
This is a date movie that caters to the needs of both men and women: American football and comedy, ballroom dancing and romance. Silver Linings Playbook covers all those bases -- and rises above them too.
Seeing it a second time has made me love it even more, not always the case.
A charming, touching and funny film, which sits near the top end of the rom-com world.
There are times when it does something new with the genre - and it does make you care about the protagonists.
A feelgood film that doesn't avoid life's harsh realities, Silver Linings Playbook is heartwarming winter treat.
A funny, believable film about the ability of even the damaged and imperfect to earn a little happiness.
... a terrific ensemble comedy about mental illness that achieves just the right balance of humor and poignancy without trivializing or exploiting the affliction at its center.
If The Fighter, was Russell's take on a sports movie, then Silver Linings Playbook is his version of a romantic comedy, and a delightfully twisted one at that.
Silver Linings Playbook" is a Hollywood romantic comedy made to mask the horrific downside of mental illness while still giving the audience a little sense of superiority as they walk out of the cinema.
Silver Linings Playbook is all things to all moviegoers. Please join the queues circling the blocks.
It should be unwatchable. But in the sure hands of America's most effervescent humanist director, David O. Russell, it's unmissable.
A man's bi-polar disorder is supposed to give license to implausible and contrived histrionics. 
Silver Linings Playbook is always interesting and full of humanity in all its shades. It has plenty of black humour and it's superbly acted.
Might at first look like proper cinema red in tooth and claw, but underneath it's a bundle of matted fleece and bleating.
A hugely enjoyable, warm-hearted romantic comedy-drama with a refreshing honesty towards its subject matter and a pair of terrific performances from Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Lawrence.
This is a date movie that doesn't offer the sophistication it thinks it does, but is as enjoyable and good-natured as the genre requires.
Certain movies are sprinkled with pixie dust, an indescribable concoction that infuses scenes with irresistible magic; Silver Linings Playbook is practically hand-rolled and deep-fried in the stuff. 
Silver Linings Playbook paves a highly entertaining road to recovery for its characters - one you will be glad to have helped sponsor.
With a truly awkward script and no chemistry between the leads this Thanksgiving arrival is a turkey.
While one respects the film for trying to juggle disparate tones, it never manages to find the proper balance.
Russell crafts a Baker Act romance playing loose and eccentric with the genre. The banter is spikier, wacky sidekicks have issues, too, and Pat and Tiffany's obstacles aren't fluff. The screws are tighter, and the movie is a ball.
An edgy romantic dramedy that suits our anxious times.
Lawrence's bold performance and her fearlessly sexual character are more than Russell knows how to harness.
An intelligent and well-crafted film that seeks to inspire audiences by finding the humor amid the prevailing bittersweetness of life. 
Speaking of Oscars, the great DeNiro is great once again here.
With leads as winning as Cooper and Lawrence, and Russell's signature mix of clever and sincere dialogue, the hook is set.
This meaningful film keeps the laughs, giddy anxiousness and warm butterflies from the trailer and sustains it all through two full hours of a love story.
Lawrence, in her most high-low, sad-comic turn yet, is remarkable.
Until the characters can take their needs seriously and laugh at themselves, at least a little, they're not going to be healthy. Playbook traces all their journeys from stubborn self-assertion to a fragile connectedness that might lead to lasting bonds.
It shouldn't work - there's just too much going on. But it does. Spectacularly. Go see it.
Just the sort of rom-com you'd expect from a director who once came to blows with George Clooney.
Just about everybody in the cast of David O. Russell's strange and disturbing and deeply romantic new film has the chance to act with a capital A.
This is a really funny film with some great performances, but sadly the second half shows that Russell lost track of what was important in the story. This still balances out to a good movie, [but] it could have been great had it stayed on course.
The film is at once heartfelt and funny, farcical and sincere, and packed with performances that pull off that difficult balancing act. In short, it's a masterpiece.
There's nothing wrong with the overrated Jennifer Lawrence that some serious acting lessons couldn't improve. The rest of the actors are pretty much on their own.
For a movie that seems at times to have no idea what it's trying to do, "Silver Linings Playbook" is compulsively watchable.
Unlike typical romantic genre fare, its jagged edges will make the characters and film a challenge for some viewers, which is the reason why others embrace it.
Sharp of tongue, generous of spirit, Silver Linings Playbook is a jagged, loopy romantic comedy about "crazy" people that insists, deep down, we're all a little nuts.
The Silver Linings Playbook" defies categorization: it's both comedy and drama, without fitting neatly into either genre.
The film is just as clumsy about psychological issues as Hollywood movies generally are, but Jennifer Lawrence's performance makes all that moot.
David O. Russell's latest entertaining ode to lovable characters you should probably be afraid of. 
Going deep without resorting to trick plays, the sure-handed "Silver Linings Playbook" scores on every possession.
Some movies are so likable, so naturally charming, that you'll forgive any dopey idea they throw at you.
David O. Russell has pulled off a tricky feat here, finding just the right tone in crafting a romantic comedy whose sweethearts suffer from bipolar disorder and depression.
Silver Linings Playbook isn't perfect - the ending is untidy - but it may just be the year's best comedy.
Pretty much a miscalculation from beginning to end.
Silver Linings Playbook is a rare thing indeed - a romantic comedy that completely delivers on both sides of the equation. 
A deliriously funny and disarmingly poignant love story that's sure to brighten the outlook of even the hardest cynic.
A well-paced and whip-smart screenplay.
Russell's deft writing, and the ensemble cast, keep it light and entertaining. 
The ending is a bust, but there's a wealth of good stuff here.
Cooper and Lawrence have a nice, believable chemistry, and by the time they get to the dance competition it's surprising how tense it is and much you are rooting for them.
Jennifer Lawrence is the standout in a tonally uneven, eccentric romantic dramedy that fuses The Fisher King with Romy And Michele's High School Reunion.
Tinged with shadows and ignited by Lawrence and Cooper, Silver Linings Playbook raises the bar on romantic comedy. It's crazy good.
It's lopsided and spotty, but it's alive in a way that suddenly makes you remember to what degree most Hollywood movies aren't.
Unlikely and engaging, this quirky, off-beat romantic dramedy is a cheerfully enjoyable crowd-pleaser.
Silver Linings Playbook is Cooper and Lawrence's show.
With Silver Linings Playbook, David O. Russell has again recalibrated, and achieved the quirky yet poignant balance of his best early work. 
David O. Russell is screwing with us. He's seeing how many indie rom-com tropes he can juggle at the same time and still make it work, with one big twist: Brad Cooper is the Manic Pixie Dream Girl with a penis.
It's smart, edgy, and filled with some of the best performances of the year
Offbeat dramedy mixes light and dark; some intense moments.
What starts off as a serious examination of mental illness turns into an entirely different movie, one with nearly the exact same third act as "High School Musical." 
Contrived, but beautifully cast and very entertaining.
Pat and Tiffany's love story may only be possible in the movies, but damned if the actors don't make it seem real.
It's Lawrence who knocked me sideways. I loved her in Winter's Bone and The Hunger Games but she's very young - I didn't think she had this kind of deep-toned, layered weirdness in her.
David O. Russell returns to his distinctive brand of neurotic screwball comedy, and like his early features Spanking the Monkey and Flirting With Disaster, this one somersaults giddily from sanity to insanity to sanity again. 
Consistently funny and, as it builds to its conclusion, also very sweet fun.
Silver Linings" feels different and fresh, also sincere.
It's tiresome to hear reviewers hyping this or that funny movie as "the year's best," so I won't. But you get the idea.
'Silver Linings Playbook' is fun, sharp and sometimes moving, but it's not reinventing any kind of wheel.
A determinedly offbeat romance and rather knowing portrait of self-destructive behavior.
Like a production of When Harry Met Sally put on by the characters from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Silver Linings uses cliches like a straight-jacket, containing an otherwise nutty film and making it safe for audiences to approach.
It might be contrived that way, but we are willing to forgive and accept because the path to what we expect is rewarding. 
Cooper gives his most natural, affecting and compelling performance yet...Lawrence makes us forget her dewy youth just minutes into her brittle, biting turn as a woman whose unbalanced rage is even more cleverly concealed...
Because of Lawrence, I just can't write off this movie.
Would that every feel-good movie came by its good feelings so honestly.
Silver Linings Playbook is, like its protagonist, hopelessly optimistic ... and it's a sign of the film's potency that we buy into it with our own sense of hopefulness.
... this is a film with its own cadence, its own particular sense of music, and it is a tremendous success for writer/director David O. Russell.
A bittersweet romantic comedy, plain and simple, and, by the time it has added in subplots involving dance competitions and football superstitions, also rather unwieldy.
It's a strain to care about Pat, and it's impossible to believe in his world.
An unfussy, rambling crowd-pleaser that recalls elements of the filmmaker's past work ...
Silver Linings is consistently entertaining, with its scrappy, well-drawn characters, offbeat humor and indefatigable positive outlook.
The movie doesn't break any thematic ground, and in other hands this same material might have made for an insufferable Katherine Heigl vehicle. But Russell and his cast make it sing - and soar, too. 
Dramatic, emotional, even heartbreaking, as well as wickedly funny, it has the gift of going its own way, a complete success from a singular talent.
...that rare thing, a top notch comedy orchestrated by a director with a talent for teasing out the unexpected.
Cooper's performance meets Lawrence's, beautifully, halfway.
Everything comes together brilliantly in "Silver Linings Playbook"-for the film's crazed but uncrazy lovers; for the filmmaker, David O. Russell, and best of all for lucky us.
No matter how grim it's looking for certain kinds of laughter, as long as there's David O. Russell, things will be OK.
Silver Linings Playbook," the exuberant new movie from David O. Russell, does almost everything right.
Silver Linings Playbook is an infectiously rousing crowd-pleaser about psychological damage and emotional healing, which would seem oxymoronic if not for the authentic, insightful atmosphere and marvelous performances.
Anyone seeking proof that a movie can transcend its subject should look to Silver Linings Playbook.
It's clever and cute and never lets you forget it, winning in spite of how much it insists on it.
Cooper's much better than usual, while the always-great Lawrence is particularly fantastic.
I say good for Russell for risking a protagonist who requires some patience and forgiveness.
It's the perfect material for Russell, who not only deals perceptively with the dizzying swings of manic depression, but makes it the fabric of a big, generous, happy-making ensemble comedy.
Silver Linings Playbook" is so good, it could almost be a terrific old classic. 
While the ultimate takeaway from Silver Linings Playbook is, as the title suggests, optimistic, it's not just because the film has two recognizable stars and a cutesy premise.
A solid cast delivers in a movie that is thoroughly enjoyable if not consistently great.
It's not often that a movie can affect you and make you laugh out loud all at once, but "Silver Linings Playbook" coordinates the task with ease.
Most of the way, the film's deficiencies are survivable if only for Jennifer Lawrence and some fleeting moments of emotional clarity and bracing conflict.
Russell pitches the action at a manic, screwball pace, and the cast is more than up to the task, with Cooper and Lawrence attracting and repelling each other with equal dynamism.
Playbook" walks a tightrope in how it portrays mental illness -- deriving humor out of its characters' actions while demonstrating just how deep-rooted their problems are.
A razor sharp, unfiltered exploration of recovery and reconciliation. 
Manic as it might be stylistically, emotionally Silver Linings Playbook maintains too even of a keel.
David O Russell's movie to love raises the bar on what has become the traditional rom-com.
Woody Allen received well deserved Oscar nods as writer and director of this original b/w comedy about a talent agent down on his luck.
It's a lovable Woody at the top of his game.
Woody Allen attends to his neglected lovability factor in this tiny, anecdotal comedy.
Another Allen gem.
Warm, funny and steeped in affectionate characterizations -- this is Allen at his most sprightly.
Although the film contains many of the great verbal jokes that are Allen's forte, the visual wit and the sentimental drama fall a bit short.
Allen's perfect as a small-time, good-hearted Broadway talent agent, giving his all for a roster of hopeless clients.
Like Hannah and Her Sisters it strikes a perfect balance between structure, pathos, and sheer laughs.
The jokes are firmly embedded in plot and characterisation, and the film, shot by Gordon Willis in harsh black-and-white, looks terrific; but what makes it work so well is the unsentimental warmth pervading every frame.
All of this is accomplished with wonderfully off-the-wall characterizations.
A paean to the loveable losers in show biz who give it all they've got but still cup up short.
A modest but often side-splitting effort from the neurotic comic.
Good, but not great Allen film.
Even the swamps of New Jersey look beautiful.
One of Woody Allen's very best ... which puts it in some pretty good company.
A great film from an American master.
A smaller work in Allen's stable