A distinctly gallows take on contemporary financial mores, as one absurdly rich man's limo ride across town for a haircut functions as a state-of-the-nation discourse. 
It's an allegory in search of a meaning that never arrives...It's just old-fashioned bad storytelling.
... life lived in a bubble in financial dealings and digital communications and brief face-to-face conversations and sexual intermissions in a space shuttle of a limousine creeping through the gridlock of an anonymous New York City.
Continuing along a line introduced in last year's "A Dangerous Method", David Cronenberg pushes his cinema towards a talky abstraction in his uncanny, perversely funny and frighteningly insular adaptation of Don DeLillo, "Cosmopolis".
... a perverse twist on neorealism... 
... Cronenberg's Cosmopolis expresses something new and necessary about the book, which is to say about limits, the gaps in what can be known, both within and between us.
Quickly grows repetitive and tiresome, meandering toward messages that land softly, producing little impact.
Cronenberg is not a director to be daunted by a scenario in which the antihero spends most of his time in a stretch limo. Turning it into a film that interests anyone ... is another matter
Cronenberg's cold, exacting precision and emotionally removed observation may not grab all viewers, but under those perfect surfaces is a raw horror trying to claw out of the denial.
Over and above its topical urgency or the bit about the misfortune of globalism, it does what this director has always done in his films: split open the head of a character, plunge inside and try to visualise the bad and the ugly things to be found there.
Cosmopolis" is a hypnotic examination of our modern anxieties about the dehumanization brought on by wealth, power, and technology.
While not one of Cronenberg's stronger films, this anti-capitalist adaptation still merits attention.
Robert Pattinson works mighty hard to make Cosmopolis more than just an erudite slap at modern capitalism. The Twilight heartthrob ultimately fails to rescue a meandering story hitting stale versions of the same talking points.
The anger over the injustice of the financial collapse and bailout is what powered the Tea Party movement as well as the Occupy Wall Street movement, and it powers this movie, too.
For those who like their Cronenberg thick and chewy
For better or worse - often both - Cosmopolis is a quintessential David Cronenberg film. Cosmopolis is simultaneously fascinating and impenetrable, profound and absurd, labyrinthine yet intimate.
For one of the smartest films I've seen in a while, Cosmopolis is also one of the least outwardly enjoyable. That by no means makes it anything less than a great film however.
Its major problem is that it's not cinematic.
It's fascinating to watch Pattinson actually acting, rather than merely brooding through another "Twilight" movie, but he's as trapped in Cronenberg's sterile intellectualism as Packer is in his leather-upholstered hell.
A black comedy as dry and deadpan as a bleached skull. To this end, the movie opens with a sort of death's-head grin: an in-your-face closeup of the grille of a stretch limousine...
While 'Cosmopolis' is mostly emotionless and a big letdown it isn't completely boring and has the potential to be better with repeat viewings, but it just isn't as good as a Cronenberg film should be.
In the past, Cronenberg has used such deadpan performances to striking effect, but in the case of Cosmopolis, the approach just leaves a giant vaccum in the soul of the celluloid
... a movie about a sentient zombie, trapped in a womblike limousine while outside the dead souls of Manhattan roil, spraying paint on his windows and hurling rats. Everything he wants is posthumous.
Those who said Don DeLillo's book was unfilmable were wrong. This is a film. That much is undeniable. Whether it's a compelling one is a whole other question.
The rapid dialogue is dry and mannered, like a David Mamet play, there's virtually no story and Cronenberg's visual scheme is cold and claustrophobic.
Cosmopolis" is proof that a film can be provocative yet completely un-enjoyable.
It's fascinating but anti-cinematic and a frustrating film to get your arms around.
Throws heady ideas at you faster than Michael Bay can explode a building, but the rate at which ideas stick is inconsistent. It does, however, develop a rhythm. The metered language forces you to adjust just as emotion develops.
A master filmmaker's rumination on capitalism as a vision of diseased titanium
David Cronenberg takes a wayward shot at making a film out of Don DeLillo's artful novel Cosmopolis. Cronenberg's version drones and flounders.
Cynical and futile - a total waste of time and money.
If there has ever been a point in human history when the phrase "asymmetrical prostate" got a bigger laugh than it does [here], I've never heard of it.
Well, if it isn't the most confounding movie of the year.
If Cosmopolis remains chilly and remote, it does so in a way that often feels unsettlingly familiar.
I don't know if DeLillo's fetishized doubletalk ever works in a visual medium like film, but I can tell you that Robert Pattinson sure as hell isn't up to it, at least not without better direction than this. 
Though hardly a crowd-pleaser. it's the sort of challenging, thought-provoking, stylistically striking piece of auteurism one rarely encounters nowadays.
Cosmopolis deconstructs language, symbols and theories to present a sprawling and dense post-GFC Heart of Darkness.
Cold and calculated, Cosmospolis is a mesmerizing journey that takes us deep into the heart of darkness -- familiar territory for such an extraordinary auteur.
With a cast like this we expected major Cronenberg. Didn't happen.
Not worth seeing
Cosmopolis is an investment that pays off enormous dividends.
Cosmopolis is something like the anti-matter version of Atlas Shrugged.
If you pay even a single penny to watch the thing, you'll be making the most ill-advised purchase of your natural born life.
I can't convince myself that Cosmopolis is anything other than unscripted documentary about the life of Robert Pattinson, shot by security cameras. 
I must admit Robert Pattinson does dead extremely well.
Cosmopolis" is a deeply subversive, deeply intelligent movie for grown-ups. Brilliant.
Robert Pattinson... brings a slick, knowing roboticness to a man desperate to maintain a pretense of control and command of the world around him.
It feels like each and every moment bursts forth with urgent dialogue, and yet what does anyone actually say?
Then there's the matter of the screenplay, which places everything in a haze of mannered syntax and enigmatic phrasing.
Art-house cinema at its most achingly smarmy and self-indulgent. Frustrating verging on abysmal verging on infuriating.
There's not really a movie there, nothing that sustains itself from scene to scene and nothing that's worth watching from beginning to end.
This film is a tough sell. But it's never less than daring, poised or deliberate. It doesn't go down easy, but it clings.
Watching Cosmopolis, it's hard to say if you're witnessing a revelation or a crock, but you'll hang on its every word.
Cronenberg seems like he has something specific, possibly devilishly satiric in mind, but his screen instincts are numb, constructing a feature that lurches from scene to scene.
The film is all too faithful to its un-cinematic source.
Cosmopolis," because of its allegiance to the book's mannered, offbeat language, feels like it never wakes up.
A purposefully disjointed, pretentious, philosophical, and deeply stylized journey through an exaggerated commentary on the haves, the have-nots, and those stuck in the middle. 
Here we have a brainy, sometimes impenetrable director, working from a book by brainy, sometimes impenetrable author. What do they come up with? Something that's brainy, sometimes impenetrable.
Poor Pattinson does the best he can. He's not terrible. But he's definitely out of his element, if not beyond his depth, an altar boy in a bishop's robes.
The program is secure, but are we?
The story seems to cleave into cerebral disquisition and primal sex.
Juliette Binoche is unusually playful and loose as Pattinson's sex buddy, and Paul Giamatti's intensity briefly raises the movie's sharpness level. But I don't think they're enough to compensate for the film's general air of arch superiority.
The movie isn't for everyone. But if it grabs you, prepare for it to stick in your head for days.
Robert Pattinson's most interesting performance by a mile.
A flawlessly directed film about enigmatic people who speak in morose epigrams about vague universal principles they show no sign of understanding.
Like all the best Cronenberg pictures, Cosmopolis is a pitch-black comedy about man's foolhardy attempt to impose systems of order on nature's chaos.
If you are a fan of David Cronenberg, you should include [Cosmopolis] in things to watch list.
There is sci-fi and there is Cronenberg sci-fi and here he has reached his pinnacle with his hallucinatory, hypnotic trip. We are in Cronenberg's bubble until he lets it burst.
David Cronenberg's North by Northwest
...the bodily invasions are not only reflective of a psychological state, but of a socioeconomic one as well.
After seeing Cosmopolis, you're going to want to take a shower.
Though the cool, insolent stoicism does work for Pattinson as the narcissistic royal-'we' speaking wunderkind, even he can't carry this weighty, wordy dissertation on the burdens of money, fame and power.
As usual, Cronenberg shows masterful control, starting with Pattinson.
It's effective for all the reasons, as propaganda, it's not: It's messy and goofy and unsettling.
It helps that Pattinson interacts with truly great performances from the supporting cast. 
It helps to let yourself get lost in David Cronenberg's Cosmopolis, which adapts Don Delillo's novel and clings hard to the inscrutable, arcane language, which very deliberately keeps the audience at arm's length
An often fascinating formal exercise by one of modern cinema's most consistently intriguing filmmakers.
Despite the constrictions, Cronenberg keeps the space handsome and active. For long stretches, Cosmopolis is dreamy and funny, in an off-centered way.
It is one of the director's better movies of recent years, even if it is occasionally maddening.
Smart and stylized - which doesn't innoculate this story of a sad billionaire against lethal familiarity and dullness. Pattinson's stiffness works, but the dialogue is vapid.
Nothing lies behind or within the film's vapid non-personalities, flat acting and dull dialogue, hot-air one-liner aphorisms, mechanical couplings or ice-queen evasions of consummation.
David Cronenberg meets Don DeLillo at last, and it's as if all the angels of heaven have come together. And said nothing.
The hilarious thought of stunned Team Edward devotees scratching their heads at this mystifying David Cronenberg movie is about all there is to get you through it.
I took a strange pleasure in submitting to this movie's stilted but weirdly poetic rhythms. But I freely acknowledge that for others, enduring Cosmopolis may be less fun than a backseat prostate exam.
Weird, difficult, and important, Cosmopolis may be one of the best films of the year.
Cosmopolis is Cronenberg's first movie since Videodrome to not only identify a particular zeitgeist but embody it in form and content.
I never imagined describing a film as a cross between The Bonfire of the Vanities and Last Year at Marienbad...
It's all vapid snark, didactic sermonizing and bewildering shock tactics.
DeLillo's brilliant analysis of the destructive power of wealth that took such seductive hold on page has a tough time gaining traction on screen.
It's like a dream that engages and drifts, until waking with a start in a finale that's as bracing and raw as the rest of the film is coolly distant.
Frustratingly bland work from lead Robert Pattinson results in an awfully watery stew.
Conventional it is not. Engrossing it is.
Mr. Cronenberg's direction throughout "Cosmopolis" is impeccable, both inside the limo and out.
If you can get past the psychological density of the source material and the tabloid noise around the star , this mesmerizing mind-bender ought to prove that Robert Pattinson really can act and Director David Cronenberg never runs from a challenge.
...a serenely crazed view of the present. The master is back.
Sometimes, even a little gratuitous nudity can't save a movie. This is one of those occasions.
Cronenberg turns a difficult, sometimes frustrating book into a difficult, sometimes frustrating movie, though one with many of the same rewards as its source material ...
Easier to admire than to love, David Cronenberg's Cosmopolis is an amplified, feverish vision of the one percent as scarcely human.
Cosmopolis" is Cronenberg's best film since "eXistenZ" and further viewings may place it higher than that. 
We're supposed to be feeling . . . something. That we don't might be Cronenberg's own endgame.
Cosmopolis is almost certainly some kind of masterpiece, but I have to admit it's probably not for everyone.
It's better to think of David Cronenberg's Cosmopolis as a dream than a movie. 
Don't panic, but Robert Pattinson may have been neutered.
Could easily have been produced as a Tony-winning stageplay but as cinema, it never strives to achieve the heights of even the lowest of Cronenberg milestones.
The more abstract and overtly stylized Cosmopolis is, the more it thrills.
In the company of actual actors, Pattinson is reduced to a piece of furniture, most of which displays more expressiveness than the immortal R-Patz. 
Diamond-hard and dazzlingly brilliant, David Cronenberg's film plays like a deeply perverse, darkly comic successor to Videodrome.
[VIDEO ESSAY] If intellectual sarcasm is your thing, you might like "Cosmopolis." Either way, the movie is too pretentious for its own good. 
A sensual, propulsive thriller, the apocalypse as viewed from lush interiors and a hermetic remove.
Hard to endure due to its pretentious nature, but deserves credit for inspiring a unique form of wrath - rage against the Cronenberg
If anything, Cosmopolis is more timely now than when DeLillo published it almost a decade ago.
The film is obtuse, talky, remote and sometimes baffling, but it is also full of ideas and Cronenberg's uncompromising belief in the art of cinema. Imagine that.
Another Cronenberg film badly in need of an exploding head. 
Hyper-stylised, cold, cerebral, difficult, stylish, at times visually sublime and at times unintentionally humorous, Cosmopolis is David Cronenberg back in Cronenberg Land ... You can't say it's anything other than unique.
Don't listen to the haters -- this linguistically complex and eloquently dark film is much more clever than pretentious.
Cosmopolis is a soulless, confusing, bore of a film, a pretentious message movie where the message itself is lost in dialogue equal to verbal masturbation where big questions are asked, and waffling diatribes are given in response.
Cosmopolis is the first great GFC art film, linked to financial and social catastrophe in tantalisingly evasive ways.
Pattinson ditches the fangs but keeps the brooding, in a thoughtful essay on a man fighting for meaning within hollow surrounds. Riveting, poetic and thoroughly Cronenberg.
I had hoped the film would engage me more and turn into something fascinating, intriguing and magical - it is not quite any of those things
Just about important enough to be self-important.
An immaculate journey into weird.
One day Cosmopolis may well have either been completely forgotten - or seen to have been ahead of its time, hugely influential and something of an overlooked classic experiment.
It's a difficult film to sit through, but if you allow yourself to sit back and be immersed into the strange and despicable world which Cronenberg creates with these characters, then you may just find something there that resonates.
This bristling evocation of the last days of capitalism is compelling and unsettling in equal measure but ultimately memorable for being so very close to recent global happenings.
Cosmopolis may, like Packer's limo, be an elaborately conceived but essentially vacant vehicle -- yet it has a master at the wheel.
Here's something truly weird: as soon as I was back in the real world, Cosmopolis knocked me sideways.
The symbols are all functional and Cronenberg's allegory for a civilization divorcing itself from its own humanity is entirely realized, but without a potent emotional angle, it's little more than an intellectual exercise.
It is the sort of film that shouldn't be cynically propping itself up with a name draw like Pattinson, but more importantly, it is the sort of film that should rouse the mind rather than dullen it with pretensions to the lectern.
Cosmopolis demonstrates that even a flawed throwback to Cronenberg's roots proves they run fairly deep.
As a quiet expression of collective neuroses, it must be considered a limited success.
As Cronenberg's film inches towards its destination, some critics detect a profound and coruscating anti-capitalist satire, but I suspect most viewers will reckon they've been taken for a ride.
A smug, academic thesis on the evils of capitalism, Cosmopolis is as exciting as someone reading you the entire book in a flat, unvarying monotone.
David Cronenberg has made some fantastic films - Eastern Promises, The Fly - but this isn't one of them.
This is vintage David Cronenberg, but an even more sophisticated, refined version.
Like good sci-fi, every element rings prescient, drawing upon our fears and anxieties as a species and a civilization.
If DeLillo talks a lot, that's his job: he's a writer. When Cronenberg movies talk - and the density of dialogue here has no mercy - they die sitting up, like a teacher at his desk.
Every internal decision, from cameo casting to the eerie quiet of the sound design enclosing us in this air-conditioned luxury coffin, is just about unimprovable.
A part hypnotic, part profound, part send-up meditation on our financially imploding time.
Artful, intelligent and wilfully obtuse, Cronenberg uses his skill to hold our interest through this oddity of a film.
Cronenberg's DeLillo adaptation has some interesting ideas, presents an intriguingly sealed-off view of the world and features a genuinely superb performance from Robert Pattinson...
Cronenberg is at play in this slippery, surreal affair that is best appreciated with open ears and an open mind -- and begs to be seen twice.
The film certainly makes its point - that a risk-averse life of unending luxury is no life at all - but it makes it so listlessly that you really won't care.
It might just be the weirdest movie of the year.
The result is more interesting as an intellectual experience than as entertainment; you watch Cosmopolis fully aware that it wants to be deconstructed rather than enjoyed.
Cosmopolis is, for the most part and without mincing words, an astonishingly boring drama that marks the latest misfire for a once rock-solid filmmaker...
Adopting a convincing American accent, Pattinson aces the role despite his panic attacks before the film starting shooting in Toronto.
An extraordinary psychological and sensual immersion in the psychosis of capitalism with a brilliant performance from Robert Pattinson.
Not even Cronenberg's trademark high- and low-angle shots, as well as one glorious moment of erotically charged Cronenbergian body horror, can stir the film from its stylish torpor.
As a book, I'm sure COSMOPOLIS was fascinating. As a film, anchored by a dull lead, it borders on excrutiating.
A polemic rather than a film. Why Cronenberg thought this DeLillo novel would make a compelling film is so confounding, perhaps only derivative traders could come up with an answer. Maybe.
Its portrayal of civilisation as an impossibly intricate, crucially flawed equation, about to buckle and snap, is sinuously compelling.
Yes Cosmopolis bears a striking gloss, and is shot basically well, but it is way too showy without the necessary substance, and as a result feels fatally hollow.
[A] vapid, claustrophobic drama...
What we can't argue is that Cosmopolis is the work of a master filmmaker, one who is determined to have us think about the ideas packed into the trunk of this limo bound for the furthest corners of the psyche.
It goes without saying that it is weird, but even from the director of eXistenZ and Videodrome it is bizarre, with the mannered, affected performances of the former and the outsider characters of the latter.
Hinky, kinky, defiantly unlovable "Cosmopolis" lands in our laps with bristly self-assurance. "You asked for this," it seems to be saying, one of the few things unspoken amid its torrent of thematically pointed verbiage. "Let's see if you really want it.
[Cronenberg's] dependence on DeLillo's source material means that the director is not entirely his own man, and the atmosphere of impending catastrophe that builds in the course of the film is constantly undermined by its bookish lines and set-ups.
An airless and inert expression of a capitalist kingpin's odyssey across a threatening New York City.
Beyond its withering critique of contemporary capitalism, Cosmopolis is also fascinated by that ongoing Cronenbergian concern: the limitations and mutations of the human body. 
Threatens to soar and to be important, but it only offers flashes of lucidity. That said, there's a consistent air of charged, end-of-days menace running through the film, which Cronenberg handles with an unbroken sense of precision and confidence.
A parade of hollow didactic encounters.
[An] agonisingly self-conscious and meagre piece of work.

This is not the smoothest trip: the transitions are bumpy, the lip-synching's imperfect...But rough edges are more than offset by contagious vitality...It may not be precision-tooled, but it's triumphantly alive.
Charming tale of songwriter finding her voice has profanity. 
The lead, Ileana Douglas, is good, but the musical film suffers from repetitive structure and lack of sufficiently interesting ideas.
An intelligent, engaging comedy-drama that will have audiences tapping their toes and running off to buy the soundtrack.
Illeana Douglas grabs onto her first starring role with passion and conviction.
Pean to creativity and a celebration of one woman's indomitable creativity.

















Though directed with machine-like precision by Barry Levinson, the screenplay by Paul Attanasio unfortunately eliminates too many key elements in Crichton's smart but convoluted story line.
Pure and simple trash masquerading as significance.
Its preoccupation with snazzy computer-generated special effects has left key plot points so unclear at least one baffled viewer had to retreat to the book to find out why some things happened and others did not.
The presence of Douglas, who has made a career of being pursued by beautiful, dangerous women, turns this sexual-harassment thriller into instant camp.
This witty, wily battle between genders is not so much about sexual harassment as it is about power politics in the workplace, where water-cooler gossip is replaced by E-mail, and where memo warfare is waged by combatants in virtual-reality goggles.
On the level of pure craft, Disclosure is first-rate in every department. Levinson's directing is cogent and colorful, and cinematography by camera wizard Tony Pierce-Roberts is dazzling.
For those who would question Crichton's motives, Levinson and Attanasio haven't let men off the hook.
This is the least personal movie [Levinson has] made in years, and the script is more a shortening of Crichton's story than a dramatization.
If the best parts of Disclosure are its sideshows, its biggest drawback is that infernal infatuation the filmmakers have with technology and power.
Douglas, with Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct behind him, knows all about playing male victimization without total loss of amour propre. Moore's ferocity is totally unredeemed, therefore totally riveting.
This is one of those big, sleek soulless movies that hums along, impressed with itself and the Big Issue it allegedly tackles... [but] what Disclosure really does best is appeal to your most prurient instincts.
Moore models some slinky lingerie and Douglas soaks his collars in sweat, while the emphasis on computer gizmos and cyber-babble encourages a verdict of virtual rubbish.
It soars because of the sizzling chemistry of Douglas and Demi Moore.
Douglas makes for a sympathetic and wily hero.
In this world of Information Highway sophistication and virtual-reality marvels, the pivotal plot points are all rickety coincidences: an overheard conversation, a fortuitous phone call.
...watchable yet far-from-engrossing...
Little more than another Hollywood sizzler, a highly melodramatic and perhaps opportunistic look at a couple of topical themes; that said, it's also a lot of fun.
The impact of 'Disclosure' is weakened significantly by depiction of the female boss as a totally evil person. 
A glibly entertaining corporate thriller.
This is a deeply silly film, highlighting some of Hollywood's most overrated talent at its indulgent, issue-chasing worst.
The movie comes closest to thematic coherence, and the popular mood, in its depiction of something nearly everyone can relate to: the office from hell.
Genuinely gripping, Demi makes an awesome femme fatale.
You know in advance what the politics will be: strong women in positions of power are just fine as long as they aren't sexually dominant and obey middle-class rules of propriety.
Levinson and Attanasio don't ignore the basics of the tale, but don't indulge them either, subjectively approaching Tom's character to maximize dramatic involvement and treating the most explosive aspects of the story more rationally than emotionally.
The movie's subject is the intricate web of paranoia and competitive aggression that creeps down and smothers any flicker of loyalty.
A pretty darn-good movie.
Levinson' sleek, trashy psychological thriller, set in the corporate world, is skin-deep in treating sexual harrassment, but it touches a nerve. 
Worse than merely 'pertinent'.
Hokey and classy in equal measure, this is better than it ought to be.
Entertaining adaptation of Michael Crichton's sexual harassment thriller.
This movie worked beyond its gimmick. Entertaining.
Remember when Demi looked good naturally?
This time, it's the author who's the dinosaur.
Viewers who will find the most to appreciate here are men in the winter of white male discontent.
No idea what it wants to be about but a nice comeupance scene.
Riveting film about what it takes to preserve your soul in the working arena.
Excellent, accurate, smart analysis of sexual harrassment in the workplace.
Wrecked beyond any repair.
Entertaining strictly as a big-budget soap opera.
As a thriller, this movie is effective and gripping, if occasionally contrived as a result of overplotting.
It is an exercise in pure cynicism, with little respect for its subject -- or for its thriller plot, which I defy anyone to explain.
Smashingly entertaining.
You should read what happens in the book. It would make a helluva movie.
In its rush to push hot buttons, Disclosure neglected some essentials of good storytelling.
Moves with the speed of a freight train.
If you can turn off your Vulcan circuits and ignore illogical loopholes, Disclosure generally delivers the goods.
Disclosure, ostensibly about reverse sexual harassment, is really just a platform for Moore's true lack of acting ability to come through better than ever.
As the poor shlub fighting several battles at once -- all of them against shrewder, meaner adversaries -- Douglas is a complex and sympathetic Everyman.
A slick, well- photographed film.








Great boy-and-dog tale, but be prepared for tears.
Not a mawkish dying-dog tearjerker, "My Dog Skip" carries a touch of Mark Twain, with quasi-dangerous tall tales and awareness of a gap between childhood and boyhood. Plus, as it's said of "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," there's cussin' in it.
Features two irresistible lead characters -- and you can't always say that about a movie.
A heart-affecting boy-with-a-dog drama.
An affectionate and tender family film...
They may find themselves mystified and a little bored by a movie designed to leave their adult companions misty-eyed.
I had shelved a movie critic's usual reserve and just started identifying with Willie and Skip.
The formula may be an old one, but it's still a good one.
Film is beautifully photographed and the musical score matches the lush images.
Even the most attention-deficient grade-schoolers should find it easy to identify with the young human protagonist so winningly played by Muniz.
You'll be reaching for your hanky and wondering why movies can't always be this good.
Lyrical and very touching.
I found it awfully hard to critically dissect this film afterwards, with the tears still fresh on my cheeks.
Yes, Skip is the latest woofer to enter the ranks of canine movie heroes and he's a welcome addition.
Well-crafted and fairly enjoyable.
Many will find their tender emotion buttons bruised from the constant battering of the filmmakers' oversized pointers.
Refreshing in its honest simplicity.
Muniz is great, displaying more talent here than you're used to seeing in Malcolm.
From the very first words you hear in My Dog Skip, you know you have hit a rare, precious breed of movie, one that honors and rejoices in the language.
It's a family movie with a heart and a brain. And if you aren't moved to tears, you might need an organ transplant.
The movie doesn't so much tug at your heart as give it a series of vigorous yanks.
This is such a sweet, healthy and refreshingly old-fashioned movie that there's a temptation to oversell it.
Proves even the tiredest genre can be reinvigorated in the right hands.
Jay Russell is one of only a handful of filmmakers who remember how to tell a good, old-fashioned story.
The banal voice-over narration by Harry Connick Jr., combined with the gooey score and feckless direction adds up to a sterilization of American life that makes Norman Rockwell look like Diane Arbus.
Grows on you like kudzu.
Only an irredeemable curmudgeon could resist melting a little in the rosy/amber glow of My Dog Skip.
The boy-dog formula takes viewers to surprising places and ends up an enchanting character study.
Are guaranteed to cause alarm and even tears.
A surprisingly well-crafted coming-of-age story that will have viewers who grew up without a dog realizing what they missed.
Anyone who's ever owned and loved a cherished pet will no doubt be charmed by My Dog Skip.
Despite its many problems, I still enjoyed My Dog Skip, thanks almost completely to the considerable charm of Frankie Muniz and the various canines playing Skip.
No dog person can sit through this homespun, relaxed picture without shedding a tear.
It was hard for me to concentrate on My Dog Skip because there was someone in the theater who wouldn't shut up: the narrator.
A must for anyone whose best friend growing up was a dog.
You won't have enough paws to hold all the hankies you'll need to sit through My Dog Skip.
This might well be worth a rental for the kids when it comes out on video, but it's a bit too literary despite the wonderful cinematography.
Good dog. Good dog movie.
It's gently funny, modestly scary in spots, full of valuable but low-key observations about life.
While kids will be delighted by the canine antics, parents will find themselves choking back tears.
Though sincerely, often tenderly filmed for good humor and credible life lessons, My Dog Skip walks an uneasy path between nostalgic reverie and gut-grabbing melodrama.
It is moving, intelligent and wise. And for a kid's flick, that's almost a miracle.
A pleasant, entertaining yarn.
Taps into just enough of that connection between humans and dogs to make even jaded cat-lovers a little moist in the eyes.
My Dog Skip probes the concaves of memory to tell an honest tale and produce what is easily one of the best films for the entire family.
Works because it never tries to be more than the very personal memory piece it is.
It's worth the trip for kids and grown-ups, because they'll find a quietly moving and powerful story...
Although it's light, it's never quite illuminating.
Bring plenty of Kleenex.
Kids will be bored; adults will admire the movies good intentions, but be bored as well.
Flaws and all, this is superior family entertainment in the tradition of quality that co-producer Mark Johnson has long championed.
There are movies about dogs. And there are movies that are dogs. My Dog Skip is both.
Paint -by- numbers stuff.
Flawless period re-creation.
It may make you cry, but not because you've seen something worthy of your tears.
Skip may not change your life, but if you want a movie you can take your kids to without any trace of off-color jokes, sex, or violence, this is one.
While this family film often follows the traditional mechanics of its genre, the emotions it elicits feel far from manufactured.


















It won't stick with you forever, but you will enjoy it while it lasts.
Second-generation Hollywood wrestles with but never truly pins down this big-hearted, broad and often flat comedy...
[Kasdan] and White aim very low here and fail to take advantage of the abundant opportunities for social satire that its upper class and academic settings provide.
With minimal gross-out quota, Kasdan's sure-footed approach mixes a teen farce and a morality tale.
The urine-quaffing gags and hearty barfing asides are the lowbrow price extracted for...gestures towards semi-intelligence.
If all you're looking for is a mild comedy with four or five solid laughs and a whole bunch of familiar faces, you could do worse.
...an effective and surprisingly funny teen comedy.
The sight of Black burning down an entire admin block during a moment of passion would warm up any winter.
It is a notch above the usual tripe we get from MTV films - but it's not a very big notch
Refreshingly, it's not as lowbrow or silly as your typical youth-oriented comedy of late.
...Second-rate teen comedy...
Engages us in constant fits of laughter, until we find ourselves surprised at how much we care about the story, and end up walking out not only satisfied but also somewhat touched.
This is mostly weak stuff, with a timid and reactionary final message about how it's better to stay in your home town, rather than go for a big-city college education.
Though there are no real belly laughs or any Farrelly-like set pieces, this is still a better than average comedy, thanks to its witty script and its amusing collection of characters.
This Orange has some juice, but it's far from fresh-squeezed.
The Farrelly brothers should take notes.
Orange County is a likable curiosity, but never more. If it's remembered at all, it will be as the starting point for a new generation of Hollywood stars.
It makes you want to see more of Hanks and Fisk, but overall it just isn't all that memorable. Worth a rental.
A schizophrenic hodgepodge of coming-of-age sincerity and watered down Farrelly brothers antics, the movie is endearingly sweet-natured even as it gasps for air.
'Orange County," happily, is an exception to the rule. It is a better-written, better directed version of the genre with few raunchy jokes.
This is a breath of fresh air and it rattles along at a zippy pace with change from an hour and a half, just as every good comedy should.
Despite some good intentions and a decent coming-of-age story, Orange County is sadly bogged down by lackluster jokes, poorly utilized celebrity cameos galore and decent if uninvolving leads.
'Jack Black is back on track.'
A breezy comedy that celebrates the way we all need just the right place to nurture our creativity. 
There's probably a sweet little comedy hidden somewhere in Orange County. It's just too bad it's mired amidst so many small-minded pratfalls.
Wonder of wonders -- a teen movie with a humanistic message.
There's a general lack of subtlety -- the filmmakers try too hard to be zany or meaningful and rarely get either right.
Although it includes a fair share of dumb drug jokes and predictable slapstick, "Orange County" is far funnier than it would seem to have any right to be.
As teen movies go, "Orange County" is a refreshing change
Clearly, nobody will mistake Kasdan as a modern-day Aesop as his floundering yet free-wheeling fable Orange has the unwelcoming taste of a dour lemon.
Its head is in the gutter, yes, but its heart and brain are in the right place.
You can feel the company's hands all over Orange County, which is a shame because if left alone, the film might have turned out to be another Election.
...a situational comedy in which the only funny thing is the fact that decent human beings allowed themselves to be associated with it.
[T]oo many of these gross out scenes...
Strictly a vanity vehicle with a mess of star babies on board.
an amusing, sometimes witty, but often uneven comedy about the horrors of familial dysfunction
You can tell with every frame that Kasdan's heart is not in this.
One of the smartest idiotic teen comedies you'll ever see.
The gags, and the script, are a mixed bag.
Orange County is a very smart movie masquerading as a very dumb one.
I had never felt such Darwinian satisfaction before seeing the progeny of Hanks and Wilson.
Picture an overbearing, overweight Jack Black running around in his underwear, not once, but several times in this film. Sound inviting?
The only thing I laughed at were the people who paid to see it.
Fresh, occasionally funny, but ultimately feeble.
As with films typically released in January, the film's staying power is about nil once you leave the theatre, but you're certain to enjoy the time you spend watching it.
Orange County lays out fairly typical Hollywood teen comedy scenarios. But they're enhanced by some sufficiently quirky and offbeat, more indie-style escapades.
It's ironic that this movie is about cartoonishly dysfunctional adults, when it is the adults who got it made and contribute the only tolerable moments.
Disappointingly, Orange County's humor is far too reliant on Black's stoner character causing an anything-that-can-go-wrong-will chain of events.
It's derivative and tiresome with little more to offer than one might anticipate from a teen comedy road trip.
Under the direction of Jake Kasdan, Orange County crackles with sweeping camera movements and a zippy storytelling pace.
Orange County flies right by with the blink of an eye--not because it is necessarily too short, but because you are having so much fun that you don't want it to end.
A thoroughly enjoyable, heartfelt coming-of-age comedy.
An awkward blend of neurotic farce, teen-oriented gross-out humor and yawning existentialism.
This one is geared more toward the volleyball players we see early on, leaping and spiking in the sand.
A well-meaning misfire, this SoCal coming-of-age tale tries to be both a broad teen farce and a sensitive family drama.
Full of keenly observed moments of intergenerational embarrassment, as a smarter-than-average teen movie Orange County falls somewhere smack in between Ghost World's depressive cynicism and Teen Movie's gleeful cliche-bashing.
The movie is pretty funny, but O'Hara is a howl.
This may be the dumbest, sketchiest movie on record about an aspiring writer's coming-of-age.
The performances are amiable and committed, and the comedy more often than not hits the bullseye.
The film tries too hard to be funny and tries too hard to be hip. The end result is a film that's neither.
Generally amusing, but clearly not as much fun as it might have been, and is near instantly forgettable.
The young stars, in general, escape with their dignity in check.
There are laugh-out-loud moments and some well-observed satire, but when the movie tries to get serious, it collapses.
The wit is smart but also snarky.
If Orange County has a warmth that takes you aback, don't be surprised. There's something endearingly familial about this movie -- onscreen and off.
It's not as gross or stupid as a lot of teen comedies. Just really thick-witted.
Thanks to White, Orange County often is very good, containing more intelligent ideas than previews would lead you to believe.
A modestly surprising movie.
The essential problem in Orange County is that, having created an unusually vivid set of characters worthy of its strong cast, the film flounders when it comes to giving them something to do.
A kooky, diverting comedy that tempers low-brow slapstick with gentle humour and a few poignant insights.
A teen comedy with enough smarts to make it worth seeing.
Just when it seemed there was no other possible way to copy a cat, they prove you wrong.
Young Hanks and Fisk, who vaguely resemble their celebrity parents, bring fresh good looks and an ease in front of the camera to the work.
Not since Tom Cruise in Risky Business has an actor made such a strong impression in his underwear.
Director Jake Kasdan delivers that rare entry in the teen comedy genre: a funny film that's also quite wise.
One of those movies like Ghost World and Legally Blonde where the description can't do justice to the experience.
Despite all outward signs to the contrary, the movie is not dreadful, but makes the best of a bad generic situation.
A disappointment, especially since it features some of the most talented comic actors in the industry -- and they're trying hard to make it funny.
The tertiary characters, like John Lithgow and Catherine O'Hara as Hank's jacked-up folks, give the film its moments. Still, this is hardly higher comedy.
Although it's sweet, it's nothing new.
Much like its easily dismissive take on the upscale lifestyle, there isn't much there here.
Not another teen comedy, thank goodness, but a refreshing comedy of the plight of a clean-cut applicant for college.
The movie is less than nothing special.
A potentially good comic premise and excellent cast are terribly wasted.
With all the A-list offspring in the credits of Orange County, it should have been a cut above the usual teen comedy. But it touches the same old bases in the same old dumb ways.
Orange County provides proof that the fruit doesn't fall far from the tree.
Though it is intermittently amusing, the movie unwisely chooses broad jokes over subtle humor, coy casting over talented actors, and forced feel-good moments over genuine emotion.
A pleasantly screwy surprise.
Smarter than its commercials make it seem.
About one in three gags in White's intermittently wise script hits its mark; the rest are padding unashamedly appropriated from the teen-exploitation playbook.
Feels like six different movies fighting each other for attention.
Barrels along at the start before becoming mired in sentimentality.
Worth at least a matinee.
A refreshing change from the usual whoopee-cushion effort aimed at the youth market.
A film that does little more than wander aimlessly about.
Arriving amid the traditionally withered harvest of January releases, Orange County is peachy.
Has no reason to exist, other than to employ Hollywood kids and people who owe favors to their famous parents.
The humor in Orange County is not just tasteless but consistently off a note or two.
This is a movie for every single high school senior in America who has just completed or is right now going through the process of applying to college.
The material is punctuated by a series of genuinely funny set-ups made all the more lively by some serious comic talent.
...has twice the laughs and six times the personality of feeble, prefabricated sitcoms like "American Pie"...
With little visible talent and no energy, Colin Hanks is in bad need of major acting lessons and maybe a little coffee.
A distinctly mixed bag, the occasional bursts of sharp writing alternating with lots of sloppiness and the obligatory moments of sentimental ooze.
There are a few highlights in Orange County, but you might want to save this one as a renter.
a ragtag ensemble of purposely cartoony, yet lovable characters, host this silly, yet substantially entertaining little picture. 
A deft script by Mike White ... elevates the usual teen twaddle by grounding the laughs in feeling.
A teen laugher that has no redeeming qualities -- not its filmmaking, performances or short running time.

Subtle and understated, a meditation on morality, mortality and murder that escalates into a small emotional powerhouse.
Although Jindabyne's cinematography features sweeping scenes of the Australian countryside as stunning as any of those opening shots from Brokeback Mountain, it ultimately has some bigger issues.
Less a moral dilemma than a meditation on the differences between men and women in matters of social decorum.
Intense relationship drama for adults only.
While it's most certainly not light viewing, and it's entirely devoid of 'Hollywood moments', this is a fine, intelligent, troubling film.
A whole lot of padding turns a fine enough story into a dour, wordy slog.
The film is novelistic in its nuance, in the patience of its storytelling and in the complexity of its mostly unhappy characters.
There is some great acting here, and some scenes do have an undercurrent of elemental power in them that tugs at your ankles. But the film never pulls you in.
I do just what I want to do/ I want everything and I want you, too/I wish I could explain to you/But the things men without women do/You just don't understand.
The filmmakers do not feel the need to fill in every single blank for viewers by the time the credits roll. Just as in reality, these characters' problems are not going to be solved with the wave of a magic wand; there are no short cuts to happiness.
The movie's remaining revelations build slowly into a set of surprisingly powerful emotional beats.
Impressively directed, thoroughly engaging drama with terrific performances and a superb script. This is one of the best films of the year.
For all the pains it takes to establish mood and character, Jindabyne hides under its own uneasy surfaces; it never allows enough sense of what this community really is, of what's to be grieved when it comes apart.
Jindabyne is not about just one murder but about the death by a thousand cuts that happens in its aftermath.
Apart from a contrived ending, Jindabyne comes as close as can be to a perfect drama.
A fish tale worth telling and worth hearing.
It's safe to describe Jindabyne as a haunted movie.
A tense and spare examination of how these married people relate to each other after years of pain, mistrust and secrets have taken their toll.
The frustration here is that none of this leads anywhere. Perhaps that is the point, that some mysteries are never solved, but Jindabyne could give us a little more to work with.
So slow, cold and aloof that it's almost off-putting. As a result, it's hard to care much about what happens to any of these characters.
Thanks to Beatrix Christian's beautiful screenplay, what was once a story about the way men and women communicate has grown into a haunting study of Australian race relations and gender dynamics.
The movie is beautifully shot, and succeeds in being deeply disturbing and mysterious, with richly achieved nuances of characterisation. I have seen it two or three times now, and each time it gets better.
A work of ambition and depth. Like Lantana, it is immaculately acted and Linney and Byrne are at their considerable best.
This kind of maturity and intelligence is all too infrequent in mainstream cinema -- let's hope it's not another six years until [director] Lawrence's next film.
Jindabyne loses its general sense of direction.
With its cold brilliance and delicate aloofness, this is a movie you can hold aloft to recognize and examine its many intellectual facets in hard light, but it will never make you feel anything.
Jindabyne uses Claire and Stewart's increasingly visible and vicious upset to get at broader social and political upsets.
Clearly, in his bid to repurpose Carver's story, Lawrence misses the writer's prevailing ethos: the sense of self-contained internal misery and that haunting quality of being hopelessly human.
The solid performances and central conflict keep the film consistently, if not constantly, compelling.
A great idea is weighed down by an over-egged screenplay, but the setting and cast bring out its best.
The seamless overall blend of involving domestic turmoil and haunted national self-questioning is quite some achievement.
An affecting character study, anchored by scraped-bare and often heartbreaking performances by Laura Linney and Gabriel Byrne.
A rich, unsettling film that gives us insight into all sides and forces us to wrestle with conscience and our own brand of right and wrong. It polarizes us to make us united.
[Director] Lawrence's compelling little film pursues a deep question: why people make the choices that they do - and how they then live with those decisions, right or wrong, weak or strong.
The resolution Jindabyne eventually offers feels small and safe. The movie goes out with a whimper.
Thankfully, Linney and Byrne are so good, so absolutely mesmerizing, many of these flaws can be at least partially overlooked thanks to them.
Jindabyne is an eventful movie, but director Ray Lawrence gives the events a simple, plainspoken quality.
[Director] Lawrence certainly knows how to bait his audience with intriguing characters.
There's lots of talk about kharma without mentioning the word, and a major theological debate on transmigration of souls, which surprisingly, isn't boring at all.
The film's sensitive treatment of the domestic issues at the center of the story goes far to make up for the more problematic passages.
Easy to admire but considerably harder to enjoy.
Intelligent, superbly acted and finely observed, but Jindabyne suffers from too many extraneous elements and from a story that doesn't land with enough force or purpose.
A slow, complex tale about how people live together, and about the rituals and relationships that constitute community.
It's hard not to admire the film's confidence in making the story its own, and Ms. Linney, a mix of iron will and emotional fragility, delivers her usual complex performance.
Throughout Jindabyne, I felt completely creeped out. From the disturbing opening to images of children killing animals, adults abusing each other, and a corpse, the viewing experience was unpleasant.
Lawrence and Christian have the luxury of more time to explore [the story], but instead they merely add several external, superficial elements that misunderstand and circumvent the story's center.
There are no easy answers in the film and it provides a welcome relief from the horror and action films that are filling the multiplexes. Jindabyne tackles adult topics in a subtle and intriguing manner.
Too many extraneous elements have been added but at the movie's center lies the knotty story of a marriage poisoned by amorality.
Though Linney is the standout, short-shrift should not be given to the rest of the cast, whose roles might be smaller but they're the ones who add a little color to this otherwise dreary vista.
Jindabyne is wonderfully acted by Laura Linney and Gabriel Byrne, two first-rate performers working close to the bone and concerned foremost with making an audience understand their characters, as opposed to merely liking them.
Shows that even in a supposedly 'tidy town,' people still experience things and make decisions that can only be justified by saying, 'Well, you had to be there.'
Lawrence ... manages to keep the material compelling throughout ... .
The director too often errs on the side of embellishing details that didn't need to be expanded upon.
Slow but mesmerizing.
Jindabyne ends up shushing itself out of any emotional wallop. Restraint is a necessity if you're trying to express Carver's singular voice, but there's a difference between being quietly devastating and muting your narrative to death.
Jindabyne musters all the emotional momentum of a reflecting pool despite a solid cast and fertile premise.
Lawrence shows the ways in which such deep and often barely concealed gulfs between seemingly peacefully cohabitating peoples can suddenly reveal themselves during moments of public crisis.
Gabriel Byrne is the fisherman who won't interrupt his trip; Laura Lin ney is the wife who finds his actions hard and, finally, horrifying to comprehend. And for the most part it works.
The film is two plodding hours of people abusing themselves, their livers, a corpse, each other and even small animals. Most abused of all is the audience.
Linney, in particular, is heartbreaking.
We live on the fault line along with these characters, and it is an experience that is not easy to shake off.
Most of the new ideas grow naturally enough out of the original material. But they almost invariably amplify Carver's bleak worldview, and in a film that runs for more than two hours, that adds up to an oppressive sit.
A sobering and serious Australian movie that touches the deep places in us that are haunted and colored by love, loss, community, and grief.
Aussie filmmaker Ray Lawrence's debt to Robert Altman in his previous Lantana is made explicit in his new film Jindabyne.
It's not just that the clean, efficient lines of Carver's story are blurred and tangled. The real flaw is that the movie's best features -- the aching clarity of its central performances - threaten to be lost in a wilderness of metaphor and mystification.
powerful, unsettling
Jindabyne started with a bad idea and the finished film doesn't do well by it, despite the presence of Laura Linney, Gabriel Byrne and several excellent Australian actors.
Such is the inherent power of the Carver material that Jindabyne rises above its polemics.
For all its roiling tensions, Jindabyne is an oddly antiseptic, even repressed, experience.
Jindabyne wears its class politics lightly, weaving them into a ghost story about the intimate connection between how we treat our living and our dead that will hover around your shoulders long after you leave the theater.
Jindabyne requires patience, but the payoff is rewarding.
The result is a mature and challenging motion picture, and something that will stick with viewers after the screen has gone dark.
A soberly, if sluggishly, crafted movie in which the bitterness never stops.
The subplot is the basic difference between men and women, how they handle relationships, and how they handle crises. Probably not a film for everyone, but I enjoyed it.
Could have been tightened up and shortened to be a much stronger film, and it's surprisingly unsatisfying as a whole.
By the end of his films- this idiosyncratic style, complex plotting, and core values about intimacy produce a combination of exhaustion, well-being, and a bit of unease. At the conclusion of "Jindabyne," while Lawrence's torturous journey has given more
Scene by scene, Jindabyne has dramatic force, but it's an awfully long slog. Carver's smartest tactic was never outstaying his welcome.
Jindabyne is that rare film mixing suspense and melodrama, social commentary and spirituality.
Murder isn't allowed to become a distraction. Consequently, with all its haunting moodiness, moral alarm bells and relational issues, the film isn't much more than the unexpanded short story it derives from.
What could have been a solid, noirish thriller is bogged down by excessive incidents.
Despite a glacial exterior, this fine film holds us in its relentless grip.
[Jindabyne] accomplished and impressive but if it has a frustration, it's that finally it is less than it seems.
There's no denying its technical bravado and the haunting power of its subject.
Director Ray Lawrence captures in Jindabyne both the intimacy of the lives of married people and the broader fabric of a community -- and the soap-bubble fragility of our perceptions of our lovers, friends and neighbors.
t's a thoughtful, bracing drama in the mould of Lawrence's much-decorated Lantana.
There's something dreadfully wrong when the picture shows signs of completely misunderstanding, or choosing to ignore, the dead moral centre of Carver's story. Why, then, bother to adapt it?
...generally comes off as an overwrought and flat-out silly piece of work.
A coiled and enigmatic psychodrama that cements Australian director Ray Lawrence's standing as a fine, if not prolific, filmmaker.
Technically excellent in every department, the film tells the story with great verve and at a well judged pace, but the strong emotional content seems to stay on the screen, without translating to the deeply moving experience we hanker for.
Jindabyne never obtains the full impact of its potentially powerful inner core.





A captivating film... [Full review in Spanish]
Overall, a complete misfire given the talent involved.
The picture feels edited with a chainsaw, reducing Hackford's story of desire to crummy Lifetime Movie theatrics, wasting the numerous gifts of Helen Mirren along the way. 
A misbegotten jumble that clumsily synthesizes various incongruous elements.
Presumably the aim was to meld dark humor with passionate ardor and high drama, but the tone here is lumpy, crass and overheated.
It's the story of a marriage but not the one on screen. Taylor Hackford tarnishes wife Helen Mirren's illustrious streak but gets a paycheck. Horrible TV script.
Hackford's films have been uneven, but he's generally an intelligent and tasteful director. His last film, Ray, may have been his best. Unfortunately, Love Ranch is almost certainly his worst. 
The only vaguely interesting aspect to this film is the subplot involving a past-his-prime Argentinian heavyweight owned by Charlie.
Even Helen Mirren on a bad day is better than nine out of ten American film queens polluting movie screens on any given Sunday, but really, this is one time she should have stayed in bed.
Try though she might, Mirren can't save the hackneyed and singularly unerotic story...
A worthwhile tale might lurk somewhere in Taylor Hackford's latest, but this flaccid look at the early days of Reno's legalized bordello business takes a fictionalized approach to history...
Familiar to the point of blandness. But then again, every time The Mirren walks into view ... 
It's all melodrama and yelling. The material is way beneath the actors... at least you get to see Pesci do "angry Joe" again.
It starts flat and gets so tired.
Love Ranch proves to be a provocative, highly entertaining and surprisingly touching peek into a unique world movies don't often explore.
If you've been panting to see Joe Pesci and Dame Helen Mirren get it on, hustle over to Love Ranch. 
A hackneyed drama in which even Helen Mirren can't make much out of her bewildered character.
Screenwriter Mark Jacobson has done little to make this love triangle clearer than mud. The script is one trite cliche after another, and Pesci is little more than a caricature of himself in past roles. 
That the cast includes Helen Mirren, Joe Pesci and Gina Gershon ought to provide redemption, but the script fails to persuade me this story needed to be told.
Love Ranch is less than two hours long, but it feels longer. Much longer -- as in long enough for the Rostovs to marry off Natasha and for Napoleon to retreat from Moscow.
Have you been waiting for Helen Mirren to run the best little whorehouse in Reno?
In theory, it had all the signs of a ripe Mirren performance, but she's undone by a weak script that leaves her flailing like an Olympic swimmer in a pool full of jelly.
Hackford fails to squeeze the tiniest bit of juice, sexy or comic or otherwise, out of the chintzy-libertine locale.
A movie with prostitutes, guns, boxing and Reno is crying out for the film noir treatment. Along with neon signs in the desert, give us some terse dialogue and some fatalism.
Helen Mirren's estimable talents are wasted in this soapy puddle, which is directed by her husband Taylor Hackford.
Novelty alone can't keep Love Ranch's tiresome tropes and plodding storyline from dragging the film down through the Nevada dust.
The kind of unabashed embarrassment that should send people to their attorneys to see if there's any legal way to get it removed from their pages on IMDB, Wikipedia, and the like.
With two great, ideally cast actors and such potentially fascinating subject matter, why does Love Ranch feel like a clumsy TV movie?
There's no flash, no sizzle, no surprise. Just beefcake and cheesecake, served on a plastic plate.
Well-acted but clumsy...
For once, Mirren seems like she's coasting in her fur coats and borrowed Dietrich attitude.
Feels like a television movie with a fouler mouth.
Basically a lower-end HBO movie that somehow made it to theaters, Love Ranch satisfies only as a showcase for [Helen] Mirren's well-established skills.
Mirren is fabulous, natch. Unfortunately, the script by Mark Jacobson relies on lazy storytelling. Nor does Hackford bring much energy to the direction.
Helen Mirren can make any movie more than tolerable including this soap.
Hackford gives Mirren the only real character in an ensemble filled with types.
Helen Mirren and Sergio Peris-Mencheta shine in this otherwise tawdry tale of legal Nevada brothel.
You can't take such sleazy surroundings and try to make it the setting of true love, especially after turning an opportunist into a tortured lover
Just another tawdry soap opera, tarted up with bigger names in hopes of lending it unearned legitimacy.
What happens when the worst tendencies of a poor screenplay are exaggerated by labored and unimaginative direction?
Love Ranch" is an off-key biopic that doesn't know where to begin or end. 
A tasty story about whores, boxers, jealousy and greed gets run through the wringer of mediocrity in Taylor Hackford's limp, long-delayed drama starring his wife, Helen Mirren.
Congo falls short on its cinematic impact.
It's a shocker: clunkingly written, dismally acted, haphazardly directed, and with some of the most glaringly conspicuous sound-stages masquerading as the African jungle ever seen in a major American movie.
A goofy mess whose screws aren't loose, but missing entirely.
I love it because it's good, and yet so bad it's good.
You'd be hard-pressed to come up with a movie that ticks more of the boxes for a perfect storm of So Bad It's Perfect.
Revel in the sheer insanity and unique humor of this cracking jungle adventure.
Feels as if the picture were edited to leave the action sequences in while removing any connecting material that might have helped them make sense.
A second-rate jungle adventure that delivers far less than it promises.
Not the worst adventure flick that I've ever seen, but far from a great one either.
Dreadfully muddled, but mildly diverting.
rubbish
No comparison to the book, but not bad for a chuckle. Harmless fun with primate puppets.
A completely unintentional laugh riot and, in that sense, top-drawer Crichton.
Watch the opening for Bruce Campbell's death scene, and then run far away.
Ineptly written, feebly acted, clumsily directed yawner of an adventure yarn.
Not bad adventure, nothing special, but not bad
This glib, overheated film about vicious primates delivers little suspense...
A lighthearted, good old-fashioned jungle adventure.
Not funny bad, just bad bad. The worst adaptation of a Michael Crichton book so far.
If you want to dwell on details, you won't like this film, but if you just sit back and relax and try not to be crabby, it is a lot of fun.
An anachronistic mess made of cliched characters and situations...
The entire tone of the book has been transformed from tension to tongue-in-cheek with dismal results.
This is easily the worst filmed version of anything penned by the prolific author.
A splendid example of a genre no longer much in fashion, the jungle adventure story.
A movie that appears to have been designed first as a future theme park, and then as a major motion-picture.
It's the first bomb of another endless summer of commercial Hollywood crap.
Suffers from a preposterous set-up and even more ludicrous plot developments.
In every frame, it aspires to be a theme park.
The least interesting adventure ever filmed.
Crichton novel [is] trivialized to the point of spoof.
Seriously dumbed-down version of the novel.
It suffocates you with one faux thrill after another.
This is slick, big-budget Hollywood hokum at its most ridiculous.
Marshall can't decide whether he's making a thriller or a laff-it-up lark.
In stupidity, this movie ranks up there among the greats.










It'd be easy to write off Paramount's Tupac: Resurrection as a cheap publicity stunt.
Tupac's evolution as an artist showed us a young man who was an activist, involved in the community, who showed signs of becoming a more self-aware and self-critical artist, as his music moved from the political to the personal. 
Gripping documentary, see it with your teens.
The winning conceit of producer/director Lauren Lazin's flamboyant documentary about the life of Tupac Shakur is that the late rapper's voice is the primary source the audience hears.
Whether he's dead or alive, this film reveals Tupac to be a scared, skinny kid with a gun, and a vulnerable human being who could easily be pierced by bullets, just like the rest of us.
A dishearteningly incomplete portrait.
The film would have been strengthened if it had been a little more willing to challenge Tupac's behaviour.
A must-see not only for fans of Shakur's music but for anyone who appreciates a well-told life story.
The film gives a fine sense of why Shakur's fans carry the torch for his legacy. But it's better from the perspective of that spirit on the streets, not up in the clouds. 
Content to be a kind of Valentine to the slain rapper -- so reliant on recycled MTV footage that it feels more like a Behind the Music special than a feature film.
A balanced, insightful portrait of the provocative hip-hop icon.
Docs like this help to banish the fear of movie audiences that non-fiction pics are nothing but talking-heads bore-fests.
A revelation.
Tupac: Resurrection" is one of the most eerie documentaries you'll ever see.
MTV offers an airbrushed portrait that does nothing but perpetuate the myth of an 'angelic' hoodlum.
It's amazing stuff.
Take away the typical lush life or hard life images you associate with rap, and Shakur's struggles are common
Lazin's documentary may be somewhat one-sided -- Afeni Shakur's involvement guaranteed that -- but it's still immensely enlightening, and a genuine gift to Tupac's fans.
Don't expect investigative reporting.... Tupac: Resurrection is a trip through a man's head.
It never addresses the problem that the more Tupac opens his mouth to explain what his music is or isn't about, and what role in society it is or isn't supposed to serve, the more obvious it becomes that his views aren't reflected in the actual music.
Tupac sold more records after his death than when he was alive. Ultimately forsaking clarity and insight, Tupac: Resurrection is geared firmly towards that audience.
It's great to hear a person no longer with us captured so bountifully in interviews, talking and even bubbling about his friends, his legacy and his scrapes.
Lazin's film gets off to a bad start with a miscalculated opening sequence presented in a way that implies we're listening to Shakur speak about his own murder, an impossibility that undermines the film's documentary credibility.
[An] absorbing experience.
While Tupac: Resurrection includes some never-before- seen family photos and performance footage, and excerpts from the late rapper's journals, it offers little in the way of new information or insight into the rapper's world.
It does have the limitations of the form: selective memory and admiring treatment that errs on the side of its subject. But Resurrection also humanizes Shakur even as it enshrines him and soft-pedals some difficult questions.
Fans, of course, will devour this film, but there's plenty to chew on for the uninitiated as well.
This film's title is accurate. Tupac Shakur is more alive than he's ever been -- and more endlessly fascinating than ever.
As poignant as it is informative.
Intriguing documentary narrated by the slain rapper himself.
Intriguing but ultimately frustrating.
A story of violence, and it's superbly told.
Resurrection is clearly pitched to fans who want a warts-and-some, officially sanctioned memento of their fallen hero.
The film paints a convincing portrait of Tupac as a true artist whose talents embraced a big chunk of entertainment: acting, music, poetry, dance.
Tupac: Resurrection does not shy away from the violence or controversy in the rapper's life, but this film is a love letter, no question. Shakur comes across as smart, energetic and deeply philosophical.
A strong film, with some genuinely revealing insights into the life of its charismatic and paradoxical subject.
A captivating movie worth seeing.
Director Lauren Lazin keeps us hooked by letting [Tupac] tell his story in his own words, through video clips and recorded interviews.
Director Lauren Lazin masterfully stitches together bits and pieces of Shakur's interviews to underline the big, Shakespearean themes -- ambition, violence, redemption -- that seemed to define his life.
An open-ended, honest portrait of a hugely talented young man.
In a year of outstanding documentaries, "Tupac: Resurrection" rates up there with the best.
To say he was complicated doesn't even begin to scratch the surface of what Tupac was really about. Unfortunately, neither does this film.
Let's assume you are a person who never intends to see a doc about rap music, but might have it in you to see one. This is the one.
Earns its place as one piece of a pop-culture puzzle, a genuine reflection of a period that still echoes throughout the culture.
Tupac: Resurrection gives us a little bit of both but, more than that, leaves us with the impression that Tupac Shakur had a lot more left to say.
Even hard-core fans will learn something.
As engaging and complete a portrait as we are ever likely to get.
It's a little too forgiving of his more serious character flaws, and it skirts some of the more unpleasant aspects of his life, but it's a moving tribute in the end.
While Resurrection provides a few precious moments of personal and social insight, it's basically just another product line in the endless marketing of Shakur as an urban martyr.
This is an important document and a fresh, intimate portrayal.
Informative and interesting reflections on his life by the man himself.
Tupac: Resurrection is surprisingly direct...
Tupac's fierce charisma keeps this documentary watchable until the bitter end.
It's unfortunate that his cinematic life is told with a collage of such static, uninvolving devices as scrapbook photos, journal entries, stock footage and oft-seen MTV interviews.
Offers mainstream America a look at Shakur's immense talent and the ever-expanding world of hip-hop music.
An outside perspective is exactly what this movie needs toward the end as Shakur's grip on his identity becomes shaky. 
A compelling piece of propaganda.
As its title suggests, Tupac: Resurrection is less concerned with analyzing Shakur than with bringing him back to life, for which his fans can only be grateful. For everyone else, this film provides an affecting, partial portrait.
A sympathetic but honest look at a man whose formidable talent was equaled only by his penchant for making bad choices.
Though we do feel the need of other voices to provide perspective, Tupac: Resurrection is even-handed for a single-point -of-view film.
It's a tale told well, but from a definite perspective.
This mesmerizing documentary makes clear what a talented performer and vibrant presence Shakur was.
A well-wrought, if highly subjective, introduction to Shakur, especially for the curious.
This poignant, albeit overly poetic documentary claims to capture the slain actor/rapper 'in his own words.' That aspect of it doesn't totally work, but plenty else does.
[The film] never breathes long enough to revel in the magnetism and wit of a conflicted personality who burned through his talent like he knew he wasn't long for the world.
Even if rap isn't your thing, Tupac's is an intriguing life story -- and nobody tells it better than him.
A kiss-up rather than a real examination of the rapper's life.
it would be difficult to come away from Tupac: Resurrection without some level of admiration for this complex artist. 
Even if the warts in the portrait are reduced to mere blemishes, it provides as full a picture of a gifted artist as can be expected of an authorized biography.
...a much more conflicted portrait of the late rap star than the documentary itself admits.
Resonant and fascinating.
A shoddily-made documentary, with many scenes looking like fifth generation copies of bad videotapes ... The film is for Tupac's dyed-in-the-wool fans only.
Valentine or propaganda? No matter how you swing it, this is an energetic introduction to the Godfather of Gangsta.
This project makes it easy for anyone to understand not only the sanctified, semicrazed star, but the complicated web of elements that created and destroyed him.
The strength of this movie is that it never flinches in showing us why [Tupac] made the choices he felt he had to make -- even though they ended up costing him his life.
The interview clips that comprise the sole voice-over are carefully chosen to illuminate both Pac's scorching charisma and debilitating paranoia.
A poet warrior of the first order emerges in this riveting chronicle of the brief life and times of rap superstar Tupac Shakur.
Lazin's remarkable achievement is to catch Tupac in the act of discovering himself. It's something to see.
Filmmaker Lauren Lazin has created a loving tribute to this late star as if he was her own son. Fans will approve.







Tells a lot about the rationale of the open-source movement, but shows virtually none of its fruits. Interviews only open-source advocates. 
remains about as graphically devoid as the old Linux command line
This in-depth study of important developments of the computer industry should make it required viewing in university computer science departments for years to come.
The charm of Revolution OS is rather the way it introduces you to new, fervently held ideas and fanciful thinkers.
Must-see viewing for anyone involved in the high-tech industry. Others may find it migraine-inducing, despite Moore's attempts at whimsy and spoon feeding.
A didactic and dull documentary glorifying software anarchy.
Ultimately, the film amounts to being lectured to by tech-geeks, if you're up for that sort of thing.
Moore's complex and important film is also, believe it or not, immensely entertaining, a David and Goliath story that's still very much playing itself out.
Great story, bad idea for a movie.
... it's as comprehensible as any Dummies guide, something even non-techies can enjoy.
Everybody loves a David and Goliath story, and this one is told almost entirely from David's point of view.
... a boring parade of talking heads and technical gibberish that will do little to advance the Linux cause.


It truly captures the spirit of an entire way of life that no longer exists.
The nicest thing about the movie, which is a little broad in plot and long in spots, is its denseness and care in detail.
The Night They Raided Minsky's is being promoted as some sort of laff-a-minit, slapstick extravaganza, but it isn't. It has the courage to try for more than that and just about succeeds.

Though Wally has its topical touches -- including the suggestion that the governor prove his innocence by exposing his private parts -- nothing hits home in Peter Baldwin's slapdash, scattershot farce.
Dangerfield misfire comedy on several levels; little to smile about.
Deserves no respect.
Shudderingly awful. You'll need a shower.










The movie is great. It is interesting without being heavy, smart without being pretentious and entertaining without being solicitous.
It doesn't matter how much of the story is true because the film is the real deal.
David O. Russell follows The Fighter and Silver Linings Playbook with the third entry in his "reinvention" trilogy, a film which is getting as much gold and silver on the mantelpiece this award season as his previous two, but less deservedly so.
The movie and most of its characters too often feel like caricatures, their energy pilfered from superior movies you've seen before.
As cons within cons press loyalties on every side, the film is less about political corruption than the deep longing of its characters to find a piece of solid ground, something they can stake a life on.
It busies itself with a rollicking soundtrack, sexy costumes, and increasingly implausible romantic encounters between the film's principals.
American Hustle amuses with irony, music and wit. It tantalizes with danger but doesn't get violent. Its sexiness - there's grinding in washrooms, on tables and laps - is electric and fun. 
It's enjoyable and fun to watch, but just barely touches the surface of its own narrative.
It's a sly film that slips through your fingers, leaving the glitter of great performances, but one you'll be hustling to watch again. 
American Hustle slides with such grace through its intrigues, slipping in so many diverting props and devices and walk-ons that you may start to feel you're being hustled by the film itself. . .
American Hustle has its flaws, major and minor, but it's very entertaining and contains some great performances, especially by the female cast members.
One of the many pleasures of David O. Russell's American Hustle, a fizzy late-seventies cocktail of comedy, romance, and caper pic, is that Bale finally seems to be having a ball.
American Hustle is about life as a performance, the ways in which we perceive ourselves and wish to be perceived by others.
If only this set of memorable characters were serving a story that didn't feel half-rate.
A movie as smart as 'American Hustle' knows that those tactile pleasures only matter if they're attached to some kind of emotional resonance.
If American Hustle has anything real to say, it's some minor bromide about greed and corruption. Ultimately, like its central characters, it's is all about 'tude; of that, it's got a ton.
There's not a lot of takeaway from American Hustle, but that's Russell's personality-he's got a great appetite for verve and foolhardy spectacle, rather than reverb and real-life substance.
Full of agreeable performances and a few "aha" moments that most filmmakers would kill for, but it never comes together in any meaningful way.
Vaults heedlessly between bedraggled comedy and serious-stakes scenes in which the director shuts off the fun.
Pure, raw energy.
David O. Russell has made an amazing film here, filled with some of the most complicated, well-developed, and fascinating characters to grace the screen this year.
It's confusing in tone, though very funny at times, especially coming from Cooper and Lawrence, but by the end, Russell feels he's warranted an emotional reaction from the audience when he's done anything but. 
An entertaining but bloated, starry, Grand Hotel-sized con artist caper that looks, sounds and feels like Scorsese without a smidgen of the electricity he effortlessly brings to his pictures.
The movie's greatest strength [is] Russell's magnanimity toward his characters, an equable, never cloying embrace of their imperfections.
David O. Russell has a gift for the farce at work in American institutions, and in American Hustle he's created another instant classic.
David O Russell's film fizzes with energy and wit, bowling along with a brio that matches the quick-wit and razzle-dazzle of its con artists.
Amy Adams is spectacular, febrile, dramatic, comic, sharp, sarcastic and magnificent to look upon, especially her soaring laughter in an explosive comic-sexual scene set in a nightclub ladies' room stall. 
To call the end result an absolute triumph would undercut more apropos labels; it seeks to be one of the best films of the year, and transcends that goal.
Like the Abscam con, the film is a convincing confection, so well played that we don't care if it's the real deal or not.
Look, I think this is a fabulous film. 
One of the films of the year for me.
A fun, energetic caper that tries hard to make you love its characters, but mostly fails to succeed..
What could have been a trifling little caper movie becomes, in the hands of Russell and his superb cast, a rich, character-driven film of humor, drama and surprising warmth.
Russell's world view is essentially optimistic and romantic
Spearheaded by enormously charismatic actors and a script's verbal wit that overrides its untidiness.
Save your admiration for the performances, especially Lawrence, who is now Hollywood's most important presence in front of the camera.
It turns out that comb-overs, cleavage, cocaine and kookiness are an unbeatable combo.
'American Hustle' is smart, sophisticated and slick. Director David O. Russell has been nominated for the Academy Award for both last year's 'Silver Linings Playbook' and 'The Fighter,' and he's bound to earn at least a nod again this year.
To understand the breadth of disco-era deception laid out in American Hustle, understand that the most honest character in the movie is a politician. Not entirely honorable but compared with the swindle sharks circling, he's Jimmy Carter on Sundays.
Grand Performances move "Hustle
Fun, charming, but slight - and way too long and flabby in the girth for such slightness.
A tour-de-force piece of filmmaking about the art of survival - and a cinematically-glorious throwback to the Gene Hackman era.
Are we being played? Oh, yeah. Just because the time and place of a film takes place within personal experience doesn't mean it's not a historical epic.
This is one you'll want to hustle to see on the big screen.
American Hustle doesn't conform to one genre, though it has elements of farce, screwball, heist thriller and caper comedy. In dressing it up like a Scorsese-style crime movie, Russell brings an unusual weight and tension to [the film].
Russell, writer Eric Singer, and the hyperventilating cast keep us guessing well into the second half.
Casting Christian Bale as a Bronx Jew makes as much sense as casting Woody Allen as a Baptist minister from Alabama, not that casting Woody Allen in Bale's role would have saved this mess of a film.
Though never boring, American Hustle does itself feel a little like a con - a skilled exercise in creative misdirection.
Russell opts for chaos over clarity and love over work
more successful than any of the cons on-screen is the con Hustle plays on its audience,
Is there a better actress currently working in movies today than Amy Adams?
The actors act up a storm and the tacky period detail, from hideous sofas to men in curlers, fills the screen, but in the end it all feels too staged, too played, too self-aware to fully work. 
A complicated FBI sting operation is combined with not one, but two love triangles in this sharp, witty comedy drama topped by an audacious ending. The writing crackles with authentic-sounding dialog and the acting is superb.
The script by Eric Singer and David O. Russell is rife with banalities and ludicrous situations, mostly involving the mafia. 
American Hustle" is marginally entertaining, and ultimately not a satisfying movie-going experience. 
Believe it or not, amidst all of the oversized collars and outlandish suits, [Russell] wrings pathos out of [his characters].
American Hustle ultimately establishes itself as yet another disappointment from David O. Russell...
An incongruous jumble, American Hustle's supporting cast and Lawrence's stellar turn lingers in the eye, not the movie as a whole. For a film that perhaps attempted to break a mold, it suffers from simply not knowing what it wanted to be.
ABSCAM comes alive in this stereotype drenched, pratfall ridden but entertaining story of good people lost in the American promise.
If David O. Russell's earlier movies sometimes felt like an attempt to create layered, Kid A-style concept albums, American Hustle feels more like him onstage at the Silverdome, banging out the loudest open chord he can and hip thrusting at the audience.
For a good time, come see this adorable, sexy, deviously antic piece of cockeyed comedy. You want nominations?
American Hustle isn't a bad film... but it's certainly an overrated one.
A story that spins out of control and lacks a comedic focus.
A carnival of a film with cons, cleavage and the great Christian Bale.
You forget that Russell once made such impenetrable navel-gazing twaddle as I Heart Huckabees, and simply revel in the fact that American Hustle is often deliriously good fun.
It sucks you into its alluring story as if you were a mark.
Deliriously alive on screen, with an energy that's often electrifying, it's a movie that in its best moments recalls Scorsese's gangster classic GoodFellas, with a bit of Paul Thomas Anderson's Boogie Nights thrown in to sweeten the pot.
... pay your money and take the ride,... laugh and ... be strangely moved by the odd-looking creatures Russell has assembled for his latest ensemble play.
Fun ride from Russell. 
If the opening scene of a film marks the first move of a grand seduction, David O. Russell scores a home run in the first five minutes of American Hustle.
Beautifully, inventively constructed, and filled with rich performances that are perfectly calibrated to the offbeat tone [director David O.] Russell was going for.
The best ensemble performance of the year and it's all true. Sort of. 
Perhaps most astonishing of all is that in a film filled such terrific performances, the prevailing personality is that of David O. Russell.
It is a superbly written movie ... featuring terrific characters who are played by one of the most talented casts of the year.
Regardless of its fine cast and stylish execution, the shallow "American Hustle" sells sparkle and hustle. 
American Hustle offers a, crowd-pleasing experience - one with profound social commentary, laugh-out-loud comedy, and even unexpected moments of compassion to boot.
The most exciting thing about David O. Russell's operatic-comedy American Hustle is how every piece of it double plays us. 
The ensemble helps to spotlight virtues in those who are flawed, and flaws in those who are virtuous, earning sympathy where sometimes none is deserved.
On paper, American Hustle should be the movie of the year and sweep the Oscars, but its supreme promise fades once the lights go down in the theater. It's good, not great.
Despite its drawbacks, "American Hustle" does have a rough-edged charm that holds your attention.
The best Scorsese film directed by David O. Russell.
It's all hip, humorous, sad, edgy and immensely entertaining, this sprawling period parable about a group of greedy people who aren't who they purport themselves to be.
If you're looking for a clockwork-perfect crime plot, you won't find it here. But if you want to hang with some wildly unpredictable and complex characters and wonder who will come up on top, "Hustle" is a lot of fun.
Somewhat in keeping with its narrative's spectacle of deception, the comedown of this sugar rush of a film might not reveal the most nutritious consumption, but sometimes the messiest concoctions have a better taste.
Not since Goodfellas has America's dark, criminal underbelly been explored with such verve.
American Hustle reminds me of a great Scorsese movie. 
The performances are wonderful and so is the film, but it is not easily categorised. Thriller? Caper? Comedy? Romance? Period piece? It is all of these and more.
Ambitious even as it studies, exploits and explodes ambition, "American Hustle" is as good as any American film this year. It's also a lot of fun. Don't miss it.
American Hustle is a movie built on that cornerstone of the American Dream, reinvention. If you're not happy with who you are, or who people think you are, then go ahead and become somebody else. Anything to survive - and thrive.
Don't get distracted by all the quick talking, double-crosses or backstabbing. Just enjoy some of today's most talented masters of their craft doing what they do best in a film that will leave you feeling anything but ripped off once it's over.
So many layers of double-cross, lies, betrayal, grandiosity, and sheer insanity that the audience may feel they are getting lost, but in a way, that is the point. 
Bursting with humor, great acting and David O. Russell's abundant filmmaking talent, American Hustle is a joy to watch.
Every time I want to call American Hustle's bluff, it rises to being more than the sum of some of its parts, thanks to the female performances.
This isn't a history lesson. It's pure entertainment, an excuse for good actors to romp through a twisting, well-told tale.
The source of this movie's galvanizing intrigue is that the characters remain in play -- they never settle into place
It's one of the year's cleverest films, and also one of the best.
There is fun to be had. Just don't expect something on a level with the director's recent work.
It joins the pantheon of great con job movies with The Sting, House of Games and Wild Things.
A sloppy, miscast, hammed up, overlong, overloud story that still sends you out of the theater on a cloud of rapture.
American Hustle" may have taken its inspiration from the art of the steal, but it has a heart of pure, if slightly tarnished, gold.
Russell's films find their heroes among the men and women who respond with grace and conscience to what the Jennifer Lawrence character calls 'poisonous choices'...
American Hustle" is what might result if a movie snorted cocaine.
American Hustle may be the finest example of how well the Russell formula works, surpassing Silver Linings Playbook and The Fighter, his two most recent Oscar-nominated films.
With a solid-gold cast and a sterling script, "American Hustle" has a higher return on investment than any other movie in the marketplace.
[Russell] seems to be having obscene amounts of fun, which becomes contagious very quickly.
American Hustle is a reminder that it's a privilege to see work that's so masterful.
Filled with rich characters and sharp dialogue, the movie turns on questions of friendship and fidelity, both personal and political, with a knockout performance by Jennifer Lawrence as the con man's jealous, ball-busting wife. 
The screenplay is so dense and nuanced, the characters so textured and conflicted, the plot so tight and twisty that American Hustle achieves a dramatic reality of documentary proportions.
David O. Russell has created this riveting world full of eccentric, well-rounded characters. American Hustle is a crime drama that is constantly engaging, hilarious, and stimulating. Christian Bale is sleazy perfection. 
Some critics love to tear down a crowd-pleasing contender. Don't let them sway you. American Hustle is a good-time holiday movie.
Brilliantly directed and superbly written, this is a hugely entertaining drama with impeccable production design work, a fabulous soundtrack and note-perfect performances from a terrific ensemble cast.
Above everything else, Russell has an unerring talent for drawing out the best from his actors. Everyone here is in top form, though [Bradley] Cooper's near-manic FBI agent dictates some odd acting choices.
Though the maneuvering almost descends into tedium at times, Russell has created a dense and operatic portrait in which nothing is as it seems.
Many of the plot set-ups get plenty of laughs, but the movie feels like a series of contrivances.
To borrow a phrase the film's con artists are prone to saying, American Hustle works from the feet up, and the fun is intoxicating.
Betrays a lack of cinematic judgment that's frankly astonishing, from a group of very accomplished filmmakers and performers. It's Scorsese Karaoke. 
Think 'Casino' meets 'The Grifters,' shot through with a hefty dose of the off-kilter ... and that's 'American Hustle.'
Russell's unerring ability to take the careworn components of a story and fashion them into something unique and poignant reaches its peak with an exuberant caper that satisfies across the board - from love story to switch-backing crime yarn.
It's an experiment in character exploration. You'll walk away from it with an affirmation that people are complicated bundles of contradictions. Especially these people.
Being swindled has never been this much fun.
Russell's aping is still a knockout, with enough razzle-dazzle style and propulsive humor to make it one of the most casually fun movies of the year.
American Hustle is a very well acted tale of con artists and their volatile relationships.
An example of performances transcending the motion picture they are in, "American Hustle" excels when observing its human figures in all of their honest and pretend forms.
Russell, following last year's sweet "The Silver Linings Playbook" with a very different tale of reinvention, has made a glittery disco ball of a movie, with Lawrence as its unexpectedly shining star.
American Hustle confidently tackles this concept of transcending reality through deception, showcasing the versatility of its exceptional cast amidst a tale peppered with savage laughs and dark twists.
A bizarrely still, tortured caper, the feature offers exceptional performances and a coarse script, yet attention always manages to return to its visual impression, calling up the decade in the strangest ways. 
American Hustle" is a good film that could have been great had it not gone into hibernation through its middle portion. However, thanks to one of the year's best ensembles and Russell's keen eye for direction it becomes an enjoyable romp.
American Hustle is a big, bold, and brash study of big, bold, and brash characters.
Russell has always had a talent for harmonizing tragedy and comedy, seriousness and outlandishness, all within a precise tone that allows for a wide range of emotions and effects. But his hand has never been more sure.
Fast and loose but it could be fast and looser. Through voice-over, withheld info, shaggy dog stories and flywheel-spinning actor's exercises, Russell keeps yanking the plot back like a balloon salesman grabbing fleeing merchandise.
... [Russell] bullshits his way through the narrative, basically, giving his stellar cast plenty of room to improvise at length but in the end coming off as an indulgent storyteller unable to self-edit.
There's a self-aware feel to the period pageantry, the alternatingly seductive and kinetic cinematography, and the actor's showcase this ramshackle contraption has been held together with spit and bailing wire to be.
Keeps you guessing throughout, a very well written piece and yet another Oscar contender.
Russell's principal obsession is the period and, I'm sorry, but someone really should've taken the filmmaker aside before shooting began and reminded him the decade's been done to death. Maybe Ron Burgundy could've broken the news.
It's hilarious and sad and, especially, entertaining.
I wouldn't call American Hustle my kind of movie, but perversely, I have to admit I enjoyed it, primarily because of the twisted logic and wicked cleverness.
A profoundly entertaining collection of none-too-bright folks who think they're smarter than everyone else. And it's all set to the best soundtrack of the year.
Likeable and engaging despite its overly long running time, sloppy screenplay and rambling structure.
The movie is an undeniable good time. But don't expect any of it to hold together.
AS with previous films The Fighter and Silver Linings Playbook, David O Russell can expect to bother the prize-givers this award season with American Hustle.
The best time I've had at the movies all year.
The film zigs and zags, chasing after many different characters. And that sprawl, the rogue's gallery of strays, cheaters and deceivers, activates the film rather than deflates it.
Jennifer Lawrence is entirely extraordinary, improving on the performance that won her an Oscar for Russell's last film. Long may this collaboration continue.
Director and co-writer David O. Russell deserves all the credit in the world for creating a story, characters and environment in which his actors could truly get lost.
It's a process, it's a thrill, a way to survive and to trust, to make good even when the choices are bad.
A great deal more fun than most Oscar hopefuls allow themselves to be. Think Goodfellas, but with bad comb-overs. And perms. And yards of corduroy and crushed velour. 
American Hustle is a relative of Goodfellas and Boogie Nights, although never quite as transcendently magical as those two films. Which just means it isn't one of the greatest movies ever made, so don't hold that against it.
You may not trust the facts in American Hustle but you can rely on it as one of this year's most aggressively entertaining films.
An extremely entertaining, brilliantly acted, highly diverting film which - like all hustles - delivers less than it promises. Still, it's worth being taken for the ride.
One of the very best films of the year.
A well made film that left me emotionally cold.
American Hustle is Saturday Night Bluster.
American Hustle is an ambitious satire, made by an accomplished filmmaker and loaded with terrific acting talent; but despite appreciating it for what it tried to achieve instead, it's hard not to feel slightly conned.
Deliriously entertaining and sexy.
Credit the script and the editing as well, but American Hustle is quite simply an actor's movie, and the entire ensemble is just fun to watch.
In a year already graced with a glorious over-supply of great films, American Hustle arguably contains the best performance package of the lot.
On the plus side of the ledger, Russell enables his cast to inhabit some colorful, downright transformative, characters.
It's rarely as playful or funny or loose or hip as it hopes.
A slick, funny and hugely entertaining film anchored by a genuine emotional centre.
Out-Scorseses Scorsese with its epic ensemble historical crime dramedy bursting with insanely engaging characters who are impossibly real and impossibly ridiculous whose stories you don't ever want to end.
David O. Russell picked the right cast, but the wrong genre, for a sincere meditation on insincerity.
Even with a freewheeling style, "Hustle" is never aimless. All that flash, sass and canny sense for detail hit the jackpot ...
The actors give the movie different sorts of mania.
It's a messy movie, yes, but that complements the messy personalities at its center.
Mesmerizing mature drama with just a bit of sex, violence.
American Hustle may be full of people faking, but Russell is the real deal.
Loose, wandering, and often monotonous.
It's a kaleidoscopic carnival, structured from the viewpoint of each of its main protagonists. The film itself is devised a species of scam, and for a while it's fun to be in on the con. Russell is, in effect, playing us.
...the emphasis is on comedy and lightness highlighted by award quality performance, especially by Lawrence and Adams, who appears in extremely revealing clothes throughout.
An awkward start, especially as it takes a moment to get used to Russell's style and tone, but once "Hustle" finds its footing it really takes off and is one of the most intelligent and enjoyable films of the year.
Despite all this copycatting, the movie still has an interesting energy.
Russell is so enamored with the period pizzazz - the outrageous hairstyles and outfits, the strobe-lit clubs, the yellows and browns - that the movie flatlines.
With a tighter plot and more consistent tone, American Hustle could have had a shot at greatness.
All in all, "American Hustle" is a fun ride - while it lasts.
Ridiculously entertaining in all the best ways.
An acting masterclass delivered by some of Hollywood's best. 
Dizzying, outlandishly entertaining ...
Isn't it a pleasure to get hustled by such exquisite professionals?
... American Hustle is like a passionate, booze-soaked conversation at a party: fun while it last, but foggy the next morning.
Immensely entertaining, impeccably structured and featuring excellent performances from its entire cast, American Hustle is one of the year's absolute best films and a serious contender for every major award.
High-energy comedy comes naturally to the filmmaker. He exults in free association, emotional riffs, in the craziness that underlies ostensibly rational behavior.
With one of the best ensemble casts of any film this year, it's audacious, enthralling and uproarious.
This year's ARGO in that it's a smart, adult caper that has the potential to both score major awards and major box office. It's a blast from start to finish. 
It truly is a good movie that will get the audience sucked in; however the tone that David O. Russell has been able to inject into his films takes surprisingly long to surface here.
Russell has created another film that is a joy to watch from beginning to end; he uses his considerable talent stockpile in front of the camera to weave a story that is funny, dramatic, and laughs at itself all at once. 
A dark comedy with a dash of crime drama and a crime drama with a healthy sense of humor, American Hustle defies easy categorization as it offers up a twisty plot and some of the year's best performances.
For some, the silver linings in Russell's movies represent a failure to embrace darkness. I see them as a humanist's act of resistance. That's why American Hustle ranks with the year's best movies. It gets under your skin.
The film has a sort of disciplined looseness to it, tightly paced and shrewdly constructed but also ridiculously entertaining.
It's a film of jaw-dropping virtuosity and pleasure, one that leaves you revved, enthralled, tickled, moved, and amazed.
American Hustle" giddily embraces the excesses of its era, from spandex to 'staches, though it's a farce that speaks as well to this tarnished age.
...so eager to sell the sizzle that the lack of a steak barely registers.
It's a high-spirited lark that works thanks to Russell's dazzling direction, delicious period details and a parade of stellar performances.
With a crackling script and masterful direction, Russell has made a fiction that is stranger -- and way more fun -- than the truth. He has the help of a dream cast of actors, all at the top of their games.
This is a film to be enjoyed for its eccentric performances; a hyper, engrossing dramedy of relationships.
In a dazzling movie about the art of the con, Jennifer Lawrence -- playing a feisty and frustrated New York housewife -- manages to steal all her scenes. 
David O. Russell deploys his deranged genius to explore the real events behind Abscam, cleverly focussing on the inter-relationships rather than the details of the elaborate sting operation.
American Hustle turns out to be a freewheeling party of a movie, one that never stops adding complications and wrinkles and hungry new players to the mix.
[David O.] Russell is not Scorsese. He doesn't do 'cool shots' with the camera. His passion is for observing actors, giving them the space to create chaos that his frames struggle to contain.
Just because David O. Russell's take on ABSCAM isn't what I'd hoped it would be doesn't mean it isn't still a damn entertaining movie. In fact, I had a blast watching it.
Director David O. Russell delivers once again with this wonderfully performed, wildly entertaining dissection of The American Dream.
David O. Russell enters Marty Scorsese territory with the sagacious wit of Mark Twain and satire and slapstick worthy of Preston Sturges
American Hustle is an extremely entertaining ride through the human condition, with characters just short of ridiculous. The beautiful thing is that Russell does this without becoming mean.
American Hustle offers so many easy pleasures that people may not think of it as a work of art, but it is. In the world that Russell has created, if you don't come to play you're not fully alive.
Another vibrant film directed by David O. Russell that is bursting with colorful characters, funny scenes, and standout performances. 
It is a wildly entertaining piece of work that features one of the best ensembles of the year. 
Never quite lets you forget you're watching bravura acting but that acting is deliriously funny. The film is just enough over the top so the artifice becomes part of the joke.
Does American Hustle have heart -- does it have importance? Such naive questions: It has Jennifer Lawrence blowing up a microwave.
Lying is an ugly, grubby business, which is why hair maintenance amongst con artists is so important.
A velvet drenched romp through the world of a con man but most of the time it's like watching a Las Vegas Martin Scorsese tribute show
It's a little bit "Boogie Nights," a little bit "Argo," a little bit "GoodFellas." It's a breath mint, it's a chewing gum, it's a laxative, it's a hockey puck.
American Hustle contains fireworks aplenty-dramatic outbursts of bravura filmmaking, sly acting choices, a scene that makes Robert De Niro scary again-but also a few too many familiar moments.
David O. Russell has crafted an unexpectedly zany, tantalizing crowd-pleaser that's relentlessly entertaining.
With a stacked cast, and sharp scripting and direction from Russell, American Hustle makes for a highly entertaining guide on how to fake it in America
This film has actual heart and soul. That's because Russell looks at the whys of these people's lives in ways that make this movie jump to life at unexpected moments.
The film may lack grit but the stellar cast adds to its allure, helping to round out this dynamic account where reinvention offers the means to endure.
A feast of a movie-an uncorked entertainment in which every scene trembles with energy and actorly invention.
A deliciously entertaining movie about the perfect con, corruption and how to survive on thin ice, American Hustle starts its hustling right from the get-go with its edgy script, winning cast and fab jazzy score
Funny, sexy and stylish as hell, Russell's Scorsese homage lacks the zip of Marty's greatest work, but makes up for it with hilarious dialogue and a killer ensemble on top form.
Martin Scorsese has his Goodfellas. David O. Russell answers with his Mediocre-fellas. 
While Russell's film succeeds on the strength of its casting and characters, it's dragged down by a murky and poorly-paced narrative.
You feel that one false move from anyone could bring the whole thing crashing down to earth: fortunately, Russell's cast seem to have an innate sense of exactly how far they can push it.
...doesn't amount to much, but wow does it have some electric performances.
A zany comedy that makes FBI agents look like keystone cops.
Russell distils his own toxic kind of nitrous oxide and pipes it into the cinema.
Russell and co-writer Eric Singer have used the general details of the events to whip up a truly hilarious look at a bunch of dreamers and con artists all lying each other into a lather, and it's a raucous entertainment.
While you have to admire American Hustle for its willingness to work hard and play harder, it's also hard to not notice that all of its frantic efforts don't really go anywhere new.
one of those extremely watchable movies that will suck you into a cable tractor beam when you come across it for the next ten years
If awards were handed out for the sloppiest movies, "American Hustle" would be a dead ringer for just such a booby prize. 
A brilliant cast shines in David O. Russell's deliriously funny account of the notorious Abscam case.
An infectious blast of funky jazz played by a terrific cast and a director at the top of their respective games.
Has the kind of throbbing pulse, wicked snap and sheer moviemaking bravado that makes it one of a very few films that can be mentioned in the same breath as Goodfellas.
Russell turns the pursuit of the American dream into the ultimate escapism.
David O. Russell's American Hustle is at times both deliciously sexy and hilariously unsexy in its attempt to portray the awful, scheming hustlers we all pretend not to be.
I just have a vague sense of hating it.
A comedy adventure story that reminds us how open and honest communication can break down the walls of fear existing between people and nations.
Bearable, but mostly middling




Anyone who might want characters and not cliches, compelling dialogue and an intriguing scenario, look elsewhere.
Magical lands and sorcery add to the movie's mythic structure. While Mika is suitably simpering, the witch is delightfully evil and is a pleasure to watch. As for Reeves, his lines are minimal, but his swordplay does all the talking.
the movie is its own worst enemy
At the helm, Rinsch turns in a movie that's deadly serious yet entirely lifeless. 
A handsome movie in many ways, but it feels like an unpolished first draft, one that can't quite decide how fantastical it wants to be.
Reeves does an excellent job of being a stoic servant bound by honour to reject love and embrace death. And "stoic servant" sounds a little like an actor stuck trying to make the best of a big budget film collapsing all around him, if you think about it. 
Rinsch's vision of Japan is brimming with imagination, and I found myself wishing I could spend more time there. I just don't want any of these people with me.
Keanu Reeves struggles to bring any life to this lugubrious, gloomily lit mythical tale about a group of outcast samurai soldiers. Slower than the queue at a ticket machine, it's only when the swords finally start swinging that the film really kicks in.
The film makers have cast their own illusion of smoke and mirrors and despite the cinematic spectacle that has the power to engage, the juxtaposition of Reeves' character grates, coupled with stilted dialogue and an overlong running time
Ignore the poor reviews. The story's a cracker, the action is deftly executed and it's largely, a fun ride. 
Kikuchi seems to have wandered in from a completely different, campier film; but that's more than can be said for Reeves, who appears to have wandered in from the street.
It's hard to ignore the overwhelming sense of dullness as the story plods along with an unbreakably straight face.
with the retelling of legends, aspects of the story are emphasized or smothered in reaction to the temper of the times, that this one eschews politics for romance and spectacle is no more or less valid than earlier versions, just far less well told.
... reverent at times but smacks of demographic pandering with its efforts to be not only a historical war epic, but also a supernatural thriller and a fantasy adventure.
First-time director Carl Rinsch's mega-budget take on one of Japan's most enduring legends feels like a folly that should never have been indulged.
The pacing is cloddish and tone unaccountably dour.
We wanted characters that don't require a narrator to explain who they are. We wanted lofty pontification about bushido
What could have been an exciting action film with an engaging premise just doesn't add up to the sum of its parts.
Dull, faltering fantasy/action feature that might work better as a video game.
The idea that revenge is a prerequisite for transcendence is an odd underpinning for a modern blockbuster. What would Nelson Mandela have made of that I wonder? If only we could ask him.
A singular viewing experience: a multi-colored downer fantasy which combines bursts of imagination with a bleak worldview, resulting in something that rarely feels mainstream.
Believe it or not, for all its additions, it's too respectful. You want it to be funnier, crazier.
Solemn as a funeral march, humorless as your junior high principal, as Japanese as a grocery-store California roll, Keanu Reeves's let's-mope-about-and-kill-ourselves samurai drama has exactly three things going for it.
A fairer title might have been Ronin in the Gloamin'.
Universal ruins Christmas and ends the cult of Keanu in one fell swoop.
It's a mute-button movie, with passages of gorgeous cinematic craftsmanship. It's too bad the rest of the effort blocks the view.
Any story that's been passed down through several generations is likely to have been embellished along the way, but this adaptation of a Japanese folk tale takes things a little too far.
An overlong, underwhelming movie now hitting theaters that certainly wasn't worth the wait.
What sucks is that the production design and the creatures look really cool, and a quest narrative set in this world could have been a lot of fun.
a respectful but inert advertisement for intercultural cooperation
Ultimately, this vision of feudal Japan seems to fall somewhere between a graphic novel and computer game. But even comics and games are less witless and tedious than this.
Memo to Hollywood: Find another use for Keanu Reeves.
The basics of the story remain unchanged, but it's the wanna-be-blockbuster additions that rankle, be it the incoherent direction of first-time feature director Carl Rinsch or the copious CGI beasties who look like rejected Lord of the Rings villains.
As impressive as these visual elements prove to be, the film struggles to grab and maintain audiences' interest, whether or not they know the underlying legend by heart.