Good morning Fran.
I don't want to hand out anything. I just want people to keep more of what they earn Fran, that's what tax relief is. This is people's own money.
This isn't spending, this is money that they've earned.
We believe that the path to keeping our economy strong, which has been so responsible for the budget surplus that was delivered last night, the way you keep doing that is, you keep giving Australians the incentive to keep going out there and doing what they do every day, making our economy stronger by working hard, running their businesses and doing what they do best. You've got to give them the opportunity to keep doing that. I mean, otherwise why would they work harder under a Labor Government that just wants to increase their taxes? Under our Government they’ll have the incentive to keep doing exactly what they're doing.
That's what makes our economy strong.
Well again Fran you’re seeing it as expenditure. We don't see it as that, we see it as an investment in Australians to keep our economy growing. You don't make -
And we are going to stay in surplus over that entire period. We will pay the debt down to zero, just like John Howard and Peter Costello did, which is what the Budget set out last night. But you don't make your economy stronger and more resilient to face the very challenges you're talking about, by increasing taxes.
I mean, $200 billion -
That’s already taken to account in the Budget. That's why the Treasurer was able to say last night that we achieved these surpluses while maintaining the discipline of keeping our taxes below the speed limit of 23.9 per cent.
Well our forecasts are always conservative. As you know unemployment is now at 4.9 per cent, which is better than -
And what we have achieved are $10 billion and better improvements on the Budget bottom line in the last two Budgets we delivered, Fran. So we've been overachieving on what we've put in the Budgets for years now. That's why we've been able to come back and get the Budget in surplus.
But you know what, the important -
I'll tell you. The wages growth is going to come from businesses continuing to expand, more people accessing more markets investing in their businesses, because of the low tax environment we're creating for them.
Employment growth continues because we've got unemployment down to the lowest level in the last decade, Fran. So we're going to get more people in jobs, 80,000 more apprentices we're going to train. This is what the Budget is driving; continued growth in our economy.
That's where you get wage increases from.
You won't get wage increases from a reckless emissions target of 45 per cent, which is going to force those same businesses that people want wage rises from, to spend $36 billion paying for carbon credits from companies from countries overseas.
Yes.
No. This is the big lie of what Labor's been saying about their tax plan. Labor's tax plan is about taxing some people more, to pretend they're providing relief to others.
We're providing tax relief right across the board, Fran.
No, no there’s tax relief going right across the board. Now, that tax relief is designed to encourage Australians to go out there and keep doing what they're doing. You know, you’ve got people at the moment, they're on their way to the trams and they're on their way to the trains and the ferries and I want to give them the incentive every single day - regardless of where they sit in the labour force, regardless of what job they have or what their income is - I want them to keep going out there and doing the right thing for their families, which they want to do.
No, because we're not going to put on 45 per cent reckless emissions target, which is going to put a further tax on the economy.
We're not going to put a $5 billion retiree tax on Australians. We're not going to increase taxes for half the population, this is what Labor plans to do, Fran.
They have $200 billion dollars and more, plus the reckless emissions target, which will put up the costs of absolutely everything and cost wages by independent analysis of $9,000. That’s what Labor's plan is. Our plan is lower taxes and people keeping more of what they earn.
But importantly, investing back in the services.
I mean, hospital funding Fran, has increased by 63 per cent under our Government just till now. Medicare is up 27 per cent and schools funding is up -
That is my Budget.
I’m talking about schools, hospitals and Medicare, Fran, and it’s all gone up.
Because Fran I'm going to put this Budget to the Australian people. Labor played this game last year and they tried to split our tax plan in the Parliament and played games to try and put up taxes for other people, while pretending to help others.
No, I don't believe so at all Fran, I think I just outlined it perfectly well. If the Labor Party supports the tax cuts, well, they have to do is say so and the Tax Office can administer it on that basis.
But I don't think Australians will trust them to do that, Fran and I don't trust them to do that because their form is to put up tax. You see, we have a tax discipline in our Budget which says that we have a speed limit on how much you can tax the economy. The Labor Party is going to abolish that and that's going to mean tens of billions of dollars of higher taxes weighing down our economy, slowing growth which slows wages.
It puts people out of work.
Now, I want the next decade to be a strong one. You said at the start of the interview, it's taken us 12 years to get back to where John Howard left us and Peter Costello. Last time people changed the government and voted Labor, they've been paying for it for a decade.
You vote Labor once you'll pay for it for a decade. That's what last night's Budget demonstrated.
Because that is our economic record, Fran. It's our economic record and the strength of the economy that matters to Australians going about their business today. The choice about who the leader will be, will be between Bill Shorten and I, for the country at the next election.
And the Liberal Party has changed their rules to ensure that successful at this election, then if you vote Liberal at this election, you get me as Prime Minister. If you vote Labor at this election, then you get Bill Shorten as prime minister. That's the choice that is before the Australian people.
Our Party changed its’ rules, the Labor Party changed its rules many years ago.
What that means is, at this election, if you vote Liberal, then I will be your Prime Minister for the next three years. What that means is the record investments in hospitals and schools. I've got to say, of all the measures in the Budget that we announced last night, Fran - and I'm sure you'd agree \sit’s the $461 million we're putting to combat youth suicide and youth mental health challenges.
I don't know of a family in this country that in some way, through a friend or God forbid directly in their own family's experience, that haven’t been touched by youth suicide.
That's what a surplus does. That's what a strong economy does. That's the thing I'm most proud of in this Budget; that we are going to take on the challenge and combat youth suicide in this country.
Because it's taking far too many of our young lives.
Thanks a lot Fran.
G’day Jon.
Well that's a terrible lie, Jon.
What you've just said.
All of it.
All of what you've said is untrue. Let me explain why.
No that’s not right Jon.
What you yourselves said would be its allocated money and people are desperate for services and not getting them.
Let me explain what happens with the NDIS. What happens is based on estimates that are provided by the states working with the Commonwealth to understand what the expected demand is, then you pay out what the services are that are provided in response to that demand. Now, we overestimated the demand in the NDIS.
That money actually shows up in extra expenditure on hospitals where a lot of those services are being provided through the state.
So it's just swings and roundabouts.
No, not at all. Jon, that’s just out and out wrong, that's not how it works. The NDIS is funded on a complete demand-based system.
Every single invoice for every single service, every one presenting for a service, it's all funded.
It's all funded not just next year, this year, but into the future. What happens is -
We've just increased the payment and for providers.
That's what's been done.
Jon I’m sorry, I've got to stop you there because you cannot tell those lies to the Australian people.
No, it is a lie Jon. Because every single cent that needs to go to the NDIS, every single demand that is there for the NDIS -
Every single service that's provided and sought -
No, I'm sorry, Jon. I'm sorry, every demand for the NDIS is fully funded. There are no policy decisions in relation to the NDIS other than every single element of the demand is fully funded.
What happens is if you get a lower demand on the NDIS, then you get higher expenses in the hospital system.
And so these are the same patients and they're getting the same support, they're getting it through a different system.
I’m sorry Jon, you’ve got this absolutely wrong.
But they are paid for through the health system Jon.
I’m sorry Jon, you cannot put that falsehood up just because that's what the Labor Party is saying -
Again, if you want to repeat the lies of the Labor Party to your listeners -
You can do that, but if we’re going to have a debate, we can have a debate or we can have an interview.
And you’ve got it wrong, Jon.
Well there’s an uncanny coincidence
Well it’s a contest of both. It is a contest about who's best to lead the country going forward and it is also about the record of our Government, which has seen hospital funding increase by 63 per cent since we were first elected. Schools funding for public schools has increased by 62 per cent.
Medicare funding increased by 27 per cent, a Budget that -
No they’re not contested, they're the hard facts of what has occurred since we were elected until now. They are the financial accounts of the nation, Jon. They're not contested, they're actual facts.
That is what we've done with hospitals, schools and Medicare.
We also have the highest bulk-billing rate in the country on record. That is our record on health and services.
But the other thing we've done last night, Jon, I'm sure you'd agree with this - we disagree on things from time to time, I'm sure your listeners understand and they know it's good natured - but $461 million dollars to invest in combating youth suicide and the youth mental health challenge in this country. From the most remote Indigenous communities to the suburbs of our big cities, that is what a strong economy and a balanced Budget can do.
Yes, I did that ages ago.
No.
I committed to that last year Jon, why would that change?
You shouldn’t pay attention to the bubble Jon, you’ve been around too long to pay attention to the bubble.
Yep.
Well, once we've completed the business case. When we were down there launching it the other day, we expect that to be in about 18 months to two years.
No, the business case needs to be done which works out the most effective way to do this, that's the first stage of the plan.
That starts now.
That starts right away.
Then when we put that together, it works exactly like we work the Melbourne Airport Rail Link. As you know, we announced that in last year's Budget and were able to conclude the agreement, $5 billion each with Dan Andrews and the Victorian Government and ourselves. This will follow exactly the same process, working closely together, because the Victorian Government, as you know, has already done quite a lot of work on this.
So we'll align those two pieces of work and we'll get moving as quickly as we come to that agreement with the State Government.
We look forward to doing that and I have every confidence that we will. We’re working very well with Dan Andrews.
Well we can. It's a function of getting the business case landed and it's a function of getting the agreement together with the State Government.
Jon, as soon as we can get it moving, we'll begin moving. That's exactly what we're doing and we'll do it with the State Government and we're moving on all these projects. There is $6.
2 billion for new projects to bust congestion, improve safety and better connect towns and regions all across Victoria.
This is a huge boost.
Jon, if we're in a position to start earlier, we will.
We've allocated $700 million to the Waurn Ponds upgrade.
$700 million to upgrade that project, that's what we've committed in this Budget. That's what we've committed, $700 million.
There is expenditure now and there's expenditure over 10 years, it's a big project Jon. You can't upgrade the Waurn Ponds line by going through a drive through at McDonald's, you've got to do the planning, you've got to get it done you've got to work with the state government. I don't think people expect these projects to be done overnight.
But you've got to turn up and provide the funds and that's what we're doing.
Well that's not true either, Jon. I mean you've got to stop saying this stuff, we've been delivering billions of dollars of infrastructure projects in Victoria and we're going to continue to deliver billions of dollars
For these projects, so we’re just going to keep getting on with it, Jon. We're investing in infrastructure, we're investing in infrastructure in Victoria and particularly in Melbourne which is straining with the pressures of population and ensuring that we're delivering the projects. Whether it's on the Hume Freeway, the $50 million there, for the M80 Ring Road, the Calder Freeway, the Gap Road, the M80 Ring Road, that's $50 million, the Ballarto Road at Skye which is $30 million, the Princes Highway intersection upgrades at Pakenham to Beaconsfield, that's s$17.
8 million.
We’re doing all of these things Jon.
That's exactly what we're doing Jon.
We established the Skilling Australians Fund last year Jon, that was in last year's Budget. We've been investing in these skills each and every year. As you know, the training programs are delivered particularly by state governments when it comes to TAFE.
80,000 new apprentices, we're going to need them because we're building a lot of roads and a lot of bridges and we're building our economy.
That's why we're investing in those with the increased incentives for employers and for those taking on apprenticeships. But not just that -
State governments fund TAFE, Jon. State governments fund TAFE.
They're substantially funded by state governments. They're the responsibility of state governments and what we're doing here - I mean, I've seen people pour money into those programs and TAFE and not get the outcomes.
The great mistakes that is often made it that you just throw buckets of money into state government programs and they produce results. Now, particularly in the area of skills development, I haven't seen those results. We've been investing year in year out in those state government programs all around the country and we haven't been seeing the results.
So we've decided to take more direct action when it comes to investing in skills through these programs, by investing in the incentives provided to employers and to those taking up apprenticeships to make sure they can get out there.
So 80,000 in the most needed trades and we're looking forward to backing them in to do that, over half a billion dollars in this Budget to do just that.
Well, I want to see it passed through the Parliament and that's what is going to happen.
That will be in the Government's bill this morning when it's introduced into the House -
No it's in the bill and it's the Government's policy.
Jon, we’re getting it done.
I'll tell you why it's important. Because this year's Budget, the year we're currently in, which was the Budget I handed down last year, we have bettered what I said a year ago by around about $10 billion and in the previous year, we did exactly the same thing. So with our Government, when we hand down budgets, we outperform them in the 12 months that follow, because we use conservative estimates.
We balance reward with responsibility and reality when we put our budgets together and that's why Australians trust us.
People know Labor can't manage money and they can't trust Labor to deliver tax cuts, legislated tax cuts. We're providing that relief and we're providing the economic leadership. So there’s a very clear choice at the next election; Bill Shorten and the Labor Party - and we all know what that is.
Or you can have my Party with me leading it at the next election and there’s a very clear choice.
Well I’m going to be busy all the way through mate, be busy all the way through. When we announce the election, you'll know when it is.
And was that an invitation?
That’s very kind.
I'll send a videogram.
Good on you, Jon.
I was here two weeks ago. And go down and have a chat to the people at the Stirling Pool still the pool where I do my laps when I'm here. They were happy to see me again when I was down there last night.
This is a place I'm a regular visitor to and have been over 20 years.
I always love being here. Well I can understand why Bill Shorten might want to come here and try and explain to people why he tried to work against us getting a fairer deal for GST for W.A.
Perhaps he's just got a lot more to explain to people over here in the West.
But when it comes to our government, I think Western Australians know exactly who we are and exactly what we're about. And when we make a promise we deliver on it.
Well, I just sort of answered that question there. The most exciting thing I think for our government which I've been central to has been our job creation record. That's the thing that floats my boat.
That's what excites us as a government, is when we can create those jobs.
Of course, there are many other initiatives that we've lead, particularly over these last six months. The privilege of leading the National Apology to the victims of institutional child sexual abuse was I'd have to say the most difficult day, but also the most important day. Those are the moments where Australians are expecting their Prime Minister to properly convey the deep sense of hurt and grievance and empathy.
And I found it an incredibly humbling day as I sat and listened over several weeks and longer than that before.
And I often think about that day and the people that I met. See the great privilege of doing this job is how many people and how many Australians you get to meet in so many different circumstances. And you get a window and a connection to Australian life that probably not many others really get to see.
You see its greatness.
You see its beauty in its people and you also see the things you need to address. So I love doing this job. It's the great privilege of my life.
And the best players, whether it's in AFL or anything, they don't care how many games they've played, they care about how they play the game each and every day.
I was talking to Paul Gallen the other day - I know it's Rugby League, so just give me a break - But Paul Gallen played 328 games for my beloved Sharks on the weekend. That is the all time club record. And I sent Paul a message before the game just congratulating him.
And he sent me a text back saying "Thanks mate, I just want the win today.
" And that's how I approach every single day. Just doing the job with Australians that I have the privilege to do for Australians and to seek their mandate at the next election to keep doing that job for them.
I'm glad you've come round.
I think of the West Coast Eagles.
I was there. The Collingwood supporters were pretty cocky after that first term, that first quarter. But the boys had a great plan to get themselves back into that game and they didn't get distracted.
They just kept their head down and they kept going.
I'm sure there are plenty of fans in the stadium, supporters indeed, 'ah, this is done'. They didn't believe that. And I'm the same, and my team is the same.
We know what our job is.
We know what's at stake here. I'm not kidding when I say you vote Labor, you pay for it for more than a decade. The economy you will live in, your kids will live in, the business that you run, that someone may want to start, the school fees you might want to pay.
That's all going to be determined by the economy you live in, in the next decade.
And the decision that Australians will make at this next election will determine that environment. And this is very important because people express a lot of opinions on politics. They are even known to write it in the newspaper from time to time.
But opinions are interesting but votes change the course of a nation and when people go to vote, they're not expressing opinion.
They are actually taking part in what is going to set the economic climate for the next decade. And I think Australians know, and here in Western Australia you are on the way back with your economy. You're on the way back.
And I would say to you at this time, more than ever, you do not want to hand the economic wheel to someone in Bill Shorten who does not know how to drive.
I wouldn't have described my comments as tempered to be honest. I said that President Erdogan had failed on the promise made by Ataturk to the mothers of Anzacs. If that's tempered, well I must be quite a diplomat.
I was furious about it and I'm pleased that the responses that have been made since that has reflected, I think, a respect for the Australian position.
So no, I would say that my response was incredibly strong and swift. And the result of that always has to be me thinking about the safety of Australians and ensuring that our interests are legitimately protected. See, we have a very good relationship with the Turkish people.
And I think there is a bond between Australians and Turks that descend from that great conflict over a hundred years ago.
And that's what I rely on. The bonds between the people. Of course, I rejected absolutely and condemned the comments that were made.
But what I didn't do, is I didn't ascribe them to the Turkish people, or importantly, I did not ascribe them to Turkish Australians because I know because I spoke to Turkish leaders in Australia that morning and discussed this issue with them.
And so my remarks were designed to do what a responsible Prime Minister would do; express our very deep outrage about this but also ensure that we continue to get on with the job of protecting Australia's interests and the safety of Australians.
Well, worried enough to ensure that I have a national security plan which keeps them safe. I would never put - I think about my kids and my wife a lot in this context. I want to keep them safe.
And I extend that to every Australian.
I'm not looking for some special deal for my family and something different for everyone else. Quite the contrary. And so that's why we've invested in our security agencies and our services.
That's why our Defence Forces will get back to 2 percent of GDP years ahead of schedule.
Last time I was here - I stress just a couple of weeks ago - when I was out at the SAS regiment and I was going through and looking at their capability of deployment and what they're able do, I was incredibly impressed with that. I mean that's what we're investing in. I just saw the new centre that we built out there and our investments in safety and security, though, aren't just about protecting our borders - and you know what Labor will do on that front - and it's not just about our Defence Forces.
Keeping Australians safe is about keeping Australians safe from domestic violence, keeping Australians safe is about keeping kids safe from sexual predators whether in the physical world or online. Keeping Australians safe is what I have been raising with the social media companies. And that's why I've raised that with Shinzo Abe, the Japanese Prime Minister and current president of the G20.
These companies, if they create these platforms, they need to make them safe and not allow them to be weaponised by terrorists or other predators.
And so right across the board, my plan is to keep Australians safe. To do that, you've got to keep the economy strong. Because if you don't have a strong economy, you can't do that.
Countries with weak economies don't have strong defences.
And that's why having a strong economy is so important. Countries with weak economies don't have strong health systems. Countries with weak economies don't have a PBS where you list 2000 pharmaceuticals which is what our government has done.
And under the Labor Party when they were in government, they stopped listing affordable medicines because they couldn't manage their budget.
A strong economy is the ticket to essential service. At this election, health’s your major issue? That's the case for many Australians - the way I'm guaranteeing those health services is because we know how to run a budget and we know how to run a strong economy. That's what guarantees health services, not pledges from platforms.
Well that's the decision that we've taken and I've announced this morning and the final decision on how preferences are allocated right across the ticket, you can only do once you know who all the nominations are. Sadly, there will be a lot of competition for who goes in the final last spot. There are a lot of extremist views on the left and on the right in Australian politics and we'll work through that once we know who all the nominations are.
But, what happened this week was shocking. It was deeply concerning as the party that actually introduced our strong gun laws. And I don't care if they were drinking scotch or not, who cares, that's not an excuse.
Even flippantly if it were that, and I don't think it was, the idea of our gun laws being traded for political donations is abhorrent.
Now, I waited to see what the response of the One Nation leadership would be to those events and I was very disappointed. I thought it was unsatisfactory and that's why we've taken the decision that we have.
Well what if Fraser Anning's running? What if Reclaim Australia is running? What about all of them? I mean there's no shortage of candidates for going lost on our ticket, I can tell you. That's alright, Bill Shorten's going to put Fraser Anning above One Nation and he's going to put Reclaim Australia above One Nation. See this is the thing.
You've got to think this stuff through.
It's alright for Bill to get up there and give his grab on this sort of thing. But this is the same bloke who had a six day delay, not a six second if you go on 6PR, but a six day delay on actually calling out Michael Daley, the Labor New South Wales leader going to election for saying Asian migrants take your jobs.
Now the question I have is will Bill Shorten have called him out if Michael Daley had won the election? Why did he wait till the election was over? Can't get himself off WeChat today and yesterday. But this bloke took six days and an election and only a few weeks before he was getting up there and saying Michael Daley was the saviour to everybody in New South Wales. You've got to think this stuff through.
When John Howard made the same decision that I've made today, he did it in a similar way.
He didn't rush into it. He thought about it carefully. And the other thing I've done, as John did - One Nation is one thing, the people who vote for them are another.
Any comments I make about the behaviour of One Nation, particularly in this past week, that does not in any way extend any commentary on those who voted One Nation or considered to vote for One Nation.
They are Australians with real questions about real issues going on in their communities. And my appeal to them is these other parties, they're not going to answer those questions. They don't have the answer to those questions.
They're not parties in government.
They have no responsibility. They'll say what they think you want to hear, but they don't have any answers to water, they don't have any answers to managing population, they don't have any answers on national security. The Liberal National Parties, the Liberal Party here in Western Australia, have those answers.
And so if you're looking to answer those questions, then we are the answer to those questions.
Don't flirt with these minor parties. We've seen what it's done in the Senate. Senator Reynolds here, our newly minted cabinet minister from Western Australia, congratulations Linda.
We've see what that's done in the Parliament.
And it's put another 10 years on Mathias’ life in negotiating these arrangements through the Senate. Both Mathias and I once used to be very good looking guys. Dealing with those things is sort of had a pretty big impact on that.
But, that's what the chaos of these other parties do.
And so that's why One Nation will go below Labor.
Well it's not always a marketing problem. But these things can be relevant. When I was Managing Director of Tourism Australia I ensured that the eight Australian tourism exchanges came here twice.
And why did I do that? Because the world is always looking for, or the world's tourism buyers, are always looking for new and amazing experiences and they're all here.
I mean, there are a lot of known experiences around Australia and they're fantastic, and we've got a lot to sell. But I always thought Western Australia had quite an edge in terms of the types of experiences that are on offer here in WA. So I think it is relying very much on that freshness and that newness and that more exotic side of the tourism experience here in Western Australia.
Of course the accommodation and so on, but there's been real improvements here on that in Western Australia.
And so it is about getting your share of voice, it is actually about connecting with those customers all around the world. But I think you've always got to focus on the things that give you the edge in any business or anything like that. And I think WA's edge has always been these incredible, quite amazing, natural experiences that you literally don't get anywhere else in Australia let alone the rest of the world.
Well you're right. Things did happen very quickly and very late for me in that piece. Pretty much the last 24 hours or so, or thereabouts, but I did call Jenny and I said, 'You might want to pick the kids up from school and jump in the car and come down', and talked to her about what was happening.
I've been blessed with my family in a way that it's hard for me to put into words.
They are so incredibly supportive. But what I'm trying to teach my girls is you believe in things, then you put the effort in and you champion them. I was raised by my parents that life was not about what you accumulate but what you contribute.
My parents served in their local church and their local community.
My dad was a policeman. My mum and dad ran a thing called Boys Brigade and Girls Brigade for 45 years every Thursday and Friday night of a school night. For 45 years.
So that's the model of community service and I was brought up to go 'you're here to make a contribution', and I'm trying to teach, with Jenny, my girls the same thing.
But I'm so blessed with Jen because Jenn has continued to provide a nurturing environment for our family. Her focus is very much all there and they allow me to come home every now and then and spend some time which I love more than anything else. Going down the footy with my girls, with Lily and so on or whatever we might be doing, reading books with Abbey.
Precious moments, you grab them, but I'm blessed to have a great family who supports what I do.
Someone's done a meme and put my head on it. You should check it out. My wife thought it was hilarious.
You'd never see me dance like that, I can tell you.
Yeah. For me it was more when I was at Kirribilli because I'd spent obviously a lot of time at The Lodge as Mathias does and all senior pollies do. So that was a fairly familiar environment for a Minister.
It was more when, I suppose, we had to move our family from our beloved shire in southern Sydney, largely because of security reasons and practical reasons.
I remember my youngest daughter said to me - and I explained that we had to move and she wasn't that flash about it because we had a small pool in our place, like a backyard pool – she goes “is there pool?”, “Well no, there's not, next door's got one”, which is the Governor General's place in Admiralty House. And she said, “well can you ring them and ask them if I can swim in their pool?” And I said okay. So I rang Lady Cosgrove and I said, “Lily wants to know if she can use the pool”.
Now Lady Cosgrove grew up in Cronulla, so she has the Shire link, and she said 'of course, of course, of course'.
So I told Lily and she said “that's all good, yep, we're good Dad, we'll move, we got a pool”. That was when John Howard - and for me John Howard has been just like when I was Treasurer with Peter Costello - they are the great role models for me in my political life. And Bruce Baird who was the former member in my electorate had been just a massive influence on my political life.
And I always feel like when I'm at home in Kirribilli that I'm staying at John's house and I keep expecting him to walk out of a room somewhere and say 'Oi, what are you doing here?'
All good.
Chloe Shorten. She's lovely. We share a commitment to at least what we believe in, I suppose.
Otherwise, you wouldn't go into public life and as a fellow parliamentarian, there is respect for other parliamentarians.
I've put it in those terms and don't worry, I wasn't getting too generous there. And thirdly, he's a mad Collingwood fan. I'm not.
But anyone who likes going to a game, I think good for them.
John Howard.
That's a good question. I would say Joe Lyons.
Managing our independence and our national interests within the competing demands of the great powers of the world today, in our region.
You know, it's an occupational hazard. Otherwise, you walk into an FM radio interview and they will say, 'we're doing this Google game, we've just Googled you' and then they'll hit you with five questions, so it's an occupational hazard to keep abreast of these things.
No, to the best of my knowledge. I don't think I am. I might have to check those who - nope, I don’t believe we are.
But you know, that's alright.
That’s a very good question. Not that I aspire to the title you've just outlined because I think that's the best thing about Australia, is that will never happen. Take a look around the world and you see where that has happened and it reminds you just how precious our freedom is.
But you know what? That law was passed.
The one I'm interested in. It's called the Constitution.
I haven't, but I've got to tell you one story on that. I was down at the markets in Melbourne, at Epping, the other week. And there's every single piece of fruit and vegetable known to humankind.
And I think, if you're going as a politician and you're engaged in kicking the ball or bowling, you can't help but remember back to that image of John Howard bowling - sorry John - but any time you go anywhere near fruit and vegetable you just say 'don't eat the onion'.
I've had the great privilege in many different roles both inside and outside of politics and I've got to say I've never visited a part of the country I haven't liked. I really haven't. And remember, I was in tourism before and I've seen probably more of this country than most people.
But what makes every part of Australia so great to visit, and this was a key part of the tourism message that I was trying to pitch when I was responsible for it, it's actually us that's the attraction.
What makes all of these places so great? Yeah, physically magnificent, beautiful, it's great. But the things that impact you are the people that you meet and Australians are awesome wherever you go. They're awesome.
Jobs. The economic strength of the country. Because from that, everything else flows.
You want to do something in health, you must have a strong economy.
If you want to do something in education, you must have a strong economy. You want to defend the nation, you must have a strong economy. If you don't have a strong economy, you don't have a plan for anything else.
Well, thank you for coming together this morning. I'm pleased to announce that I'll be recommending to the Governor-General that Ms Ita Buttrose be appointed the next chair of the ABC. The ABC plays an extremely important role in Australian life and has done for generations.
It's an important Australian institution and we have seen that time and again and most recently we have seen that in the fires and the floods that have once again ravaged our nation over the summer period.
It's the ABC that those who have been stricken by those disasters have turned to in their times of need to get the information and reliable news services that they have needed to cope with these debilitating disasters. But that's not the only role, of course, that the ABC plays. It plays a pervasive role throughout Australian life from our youngest to our oldest.
All across the generations.
And we have all had our own direct association and wonderful stories that we can tell about the ABC. So when you ask someone to take on the role as chair of the ABC, it needs to be someone you know to be trusted with that important institution. And in asking Ms Buttrose to take on this role, that's exactly who I believe we have been able to find.
I'm very appreciative of her willingness to take on this role.
Ita, as we know, I hope she doesn't mind me being informal…
…has the strength, the integrity and the fierce independence that she is known for to take stewardship of this important Australian institution. But it is not just her extensive experience in publishing and broadcasting which equips her for this role as we know. As a former Australian of the Year, Ita's experience, whether it comes to her support for causes like Alzheimer's, arthritis, AIDS, the Smith Family, the arts, the environment, these are all issues over her professional roles both in broadcasting and journalism as well as her roles outside of those undertakings, she's demonstrated a passion, a deep knowledge and empathy for very much in line, I think, with the views and the wishes and concerns of Australians.
But the other thing that I think really sets Ita apart is this: The reason she has been so successful - in publishing, in broadcasting, is she has always put her viewers, her listeners and her readers first.
And you know what? That's what the ABC needs to do too. It's about their viewers, it's about their listeners, it's about their readers, and the services they provide to Australians. And in Ms Buttrose we have someone who has demonstrated throughout her career that the best way to run a broadcasting and publishing organisation is to focus on the people for whom it's for - which is the readers and the viewers, and the listeners to the ABC.
Australians trust Ita.
I trust Ita. And that's why I have asked her to take on this role and I'm absolutely thrilled that she has accepted our ask to take on that role and I want to congratulate her on her pending appointment obviously subject to the Governor-General and those processes we followed in the normal way. Thank you very much, Ita.
I'm going to ask the Minister to make a few comments and then we'll ask Ms Buttrose to make a few.
Chair-designate?
Thank you very much Ita, Let's take some questions on this matter. As usual I know there’ll be other questions on political matters of the day and given the fierce independence of the ABC, I won't impose on the chair-designate to be here for those questions and you might excuse Ita at that point. Yes?
Well the Labor Party put in place a process when they were in government which was this independent process of the Secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet appointing a panel. And that panel undertakes that process at complete arm's lengths from the government. I have no involvement in it, the Minister has no involvement in it.
They appoint the recruiters who are involved and provide the terms for those recruiters.
So, the Labor Party set up a process, we have followed that process, but where I don't believe that process actually meets the requirements, then the government of the day has the ability to make the right appointment and that's what I have done today.
That's the process I have always followed by the way. And from time to time I have had my complaints with the editors and I have dealt with them through those processes and I have been able to find some satisfaction in how those processes are followed. It hasn't been uncommon for the ABC to actually issue apologies to me in the past on air, in fact, and so I followed those processes and always will continue to.
I respect the independence of the ABC as our Government always has, and in the new chair-designate, I know there will be a fiercely independent chair and who, I think, commands great respect for the Australian people when it comes to the integrity of the journalistic process.
And that means getting facts right. It means getting things right and that's why I have great confidence in making this recommendation to the Governor-General. So, you know, we'll continue to follow that Process and I was very pleased to invite Ita to consider this role earlier this year and I'm thrilled that she's taken up the challenge.
I'm just amused.
Well, I'm not proposing that. But what I can assure you is that all the processes of the Act have been followed. You asked about the process through cabinet as well.
It followed the normal cabinet process.
It went to cabinet. It's my responsibility as Prime Minister to put forward a nomination to cabinet which I did and that was enthusiastically supported earlier this week and to work with the Minister for Communications in that process in the department. All of those processes were followed.
I think that's the important point.
And when you follow all the important processes and you make decisions having followed those processes, which is what we have done, which leaves open where I feel that the recommendations that were made to me, if in my view and the government's view, don't meet the standard or the requirement that we have, then we're at liberty to make a further nomination which we have and we'll be doing that to the Governor-General. We will table our reasons for doing so in the Parliament in the normal process which is required under the Act. So the processes have been followed.
That's including the requirements for official consultation with the Leader of the Opposition which was done earlier today.
Behind The News. I remember it as a kid and that's where I started getting my first current affairs reporting from - was Behind The News. And it was a bit different back then than what it is today, but - the fact it's still there, I think is great.
No, there has been a lot since then, obviously. I always understand in all the roles that I have had, the importance of, you know, appearing on the flagship interview programs on the ABC. I have never been a stranger to those whether it's the 7.
30 or Insiders in the past or most recently AM, all of these.
I mean they play an important role. I have always treated those with the respect they have earned and their presenters as well. And I have dealt with many of those presenters and they're always a gruelling and tough interview, I have got to say.
And that's as it should be and I think as leaders we - we are in a position to having to put ourselves forward for that as indeed we are here today.
So look, there are more, Hugh and we'll have a coffee one day and I'll share more with you. But the one - perhaps the first engagement is always the sweetest and that was Behind The News all those years ago.
I can assure you that any conversations I have with the chair-designate on these matters will always remain between the Chair’s designate and indeed the Chair and I. If I have any formal issues that I need to raise with the ABC, then there are appropriate channels for doing that.
That should be in place next week.
Any more questions on this issue before we move on?
Can I also pass on my best wishes to Kerri-Anne as well. We, Ita and I just heard about that before we came here.
Yeah. That is a true love story, a love story that shows how lucky we are to have people who we love in our lives and I'm sure Kerri-Anne will be deeply comforted by that relationship over such a long period of time and I'm sure she will get enormous waves of comfort and support from the Australian people. They shared their story openly with the Australian public and they let people into a very private part of their lives and I think the strength and determination, care and compassion that was shown in that relationship was an encouragement to all Australians.
We love you, Kerry-Anne and we just hope that these days and weeks ahead are not too arduous, but we know they will be, and you have the love and care of the nation with you.
So with that, we might thank Ita again and we will get on to the other matters of the day. Thank you.
Can I also thank the acting chair Kirstin Ferguson for the role she’s been performing since taking on the role of acting chair, and she’ll obviously be engaging with the chair-designate as we move through that next phase and after those events of last year that required quite a bit of skill and experience to ensure that the ABC could get back to what they need to focus on, and that, I think, has occurred and I want to thank Kirstin on what she has done, I'm sure Mitch would, too.
On other matters today, as you know, the last four remaining children who are on Nauru at the regional processing location - of course, they hadn't been in detention for quite a period of time, they were living on Nauru - they have been transferred to the United States and that means there are no longer any children on Nauru at the regional processing location. There were no children on Manus Island, it was the former government that put children on Manus Island in an inexplicable decision to that that in the first instance. That was rectified a long time ago.
And so I am very pleased that were are in a position now to say that has been achieved and the only way you can ensure that children don’t go back on Nauru is to ensure that your border protection regime is not compromised and that you do not allow vessels to legally enter Australia with children on board. And the only way you can do that is maintain the strength of our border protection regime. That’s what our Government is doing and that’s what Bill Shorten and the Labor Party demonstrated they do not have the ability or conviction or determination to do.
They will just blow over in a hair’s breadth, whether it’s in the people smugglers or indeed from other sections of the community which would have them undermine our border protection.
This will be a very complex case and Australia will make decisions consistent with our national security interests. Obviously the issue of the children involved is also a very sensitive one. The children can’t be held responsible for the crimes of their parents.
They are in a very dangerous part of the world and Australia is not in a position to offer any safe passage for people who are in that part of the world.
And that is very concerning for the fact that there are children involved in this and their parents, Khaled Sharrouf in particular who committed despicable crimes, have placed their children in harm’s way. So look, we will deal with that issue sensitively but we must remember that both parents, including Khaled Sharrouf’s wife, committed crimes being where they were and doing what they were doing.
Well I’m not familiar with the circumstances of that case, Hugh, so I can’t really comment.
Well Australians, whether they’re former Prime Ministers or not, have every right to express the views that they have. What I have said about this issue is my thoughts remain with all victims of institutional child sexual abuse. Having, as I said yesterday, led the national apology following the Royal Commission – which I must say, Hugh, is one of I think the outstanding achievements of the ABC in the way that they addressed that issue of institutional child sexual abuse – my thoughts are with them.
Because all of this will be stirring up all of those most horrific and painful of experiences they endured.
And to be honest, that’s what I’m particularly focused on at the moment in my concern for them and how they’re processing all of this. Having met so many of them through the process of the apology, it just… it really just makes my heart terribly sad to know the pain they will be feeling today. It just… they just relive it all, and it’s just horrendous.
So to be honest, I’m more concerned about that.
G’day Waleed.
Yeah?
It has been an extraordinary few days and you've just gotten back from New Zealand, meeting with Prime Minister Ardern, you would obviously have a keen sense of what it's like on the ground there.
These events are tectonic, they affect us all. On Friday I was in Sydney when the first news came through and at that stage it was just very unclear. We didn't really know what was happening, who it was, except for where it was happening.
Obviously that was deeply distressing; in a mosque.
Then as the news came through - and you get the briefings and it became crystal clear what had occurred - there was just a numbness. We all experienced it. You experienced it, we all experienced it as the news came and then the horror came, of the hatred and the ugliness that had led to this.
Sure.
I don't know if Australians understand Islam very well and that can often lead to fear of things you don't understand. So by definition that's what it leads to, but that doesn't always translate into extremism, just like any view doesn't necessarily flow into extremism. Malcolm used to say; “Domestic violence starts with disrespect of women,” -
But not all disrespect of women leads to violence.
There's no doubt that exists in Australia, there's no doubt that exists in Australia but there’s –
But there's no doubt that so many forms of hatred and stereotyping goes on in the Australian community. I mean my -
Well, we have been tracking through our agencies, this form of extremism. Now, people use different words, I have said right-wing extremist, others have said white supremacists or white separatists. It all means the same thing ultimately.
At the end of the day it's just where a view gets taken to an absolute extreme, when you're talking about supremacists and separatists.
Any community can take itself to a point where they engage in a form of fundamentalism, extremism, which is a danger to innocents. Now this is true in the Christian community, it's true in the Hindu community - in other countries I should stress, I mean we all know of violence that has occurred there - Buddhist communities, Muslim communities. Where in any of these communities, you allow fundamentalism and extremism to take hold and as a community you don't guard against that, then this is where it ends.
And the great victim is innocents, the great victim is peace.
No, I don't believe the Liberal Party does and I don't believe - I can't speak for the National Party, I’ll let the leader of the Nationals –
No, no I don’t believe so, I don’t believe so. But I’ll speak for myself -
I think it’s important for all of us – and today is Harmony Day. Harmony Day is an opportunity for us, I think, to understand difference better. You know the classic wisdom; “Seek first to understand, before you understood”.
I think that is one of the important lessons of Harmony Day.
The problem I have is that we don't do a lot of ‘seeking to understand first’. We often jump to conclusions about others. In politics, I think it's important that we have disagreements, but I wish we could disagree better.
I wish if we did disagree, that we always didn't leap to assuming other people's motives.
I think that's important.
You know, you and I can disagree and you've interviewed me before, when you're in radio and years ago and we've disagreed. But I think it's really important in Australia if we want a better society, that we've got to disagree better and respect each other more and the motives of others. Not to leap to prejudiced conclusions about others.
As leader it's my job to ensure that the tone I set, is the right tone. The tone I have set, you can you can see from my experience Waleed. I mean you may not be familiar with my experience in this area, let me tell you the story.
When I came in and the Parliament in 2007 in the seat of Cook in the southern part of Sydney, that was not long after the riots there and the revenge attacks that took place soon after. So I know what it looks like in a community, when things turn very bad and the cycle of violence is allowed to perpetuate. My predecessor Bruce Baird responded to this working with a wonderful bloke who has become a dear friend of mine Jamal Rifi.
They brought the communities together by taking a whole group of young Muslim people in south-western Sydney and they trained to be lifesavers, particularly in the North Cronulla Surf Club.
Now when I came into Parliament we wanted to keep up this program of bringing those two parts of Sydney together. Jason Clare, a good friend of mine and a Labor member for that part of Sydney, we decided to take young people from both of our communities and walk the Kokoda Track together, to help us understand and particularly our younger people, these two different types of cultures, what I described as “very different Australian experiences”.
Now since then, Jason I did it two more times, we walked the Sandakan death march together with a similar group and included indigenous group actually from Rob Oakeshott’s electorate at the time. We did the same thing with the Black Cat Track in 2013 and had some great young Muslim women, there some of whom were working for the AFP and again in 2015. I wasn't able to go on that one, but I helped organize one we took to Gallipoli.
Now over that period of time, it has been my work in Parliament to try and build these communities together, not apart.
Now that's my form Waleed and my form is to take that experience into my own Party as leader.
The best way for me to address any problem is to lead by my own example and I’ve just said –
Well there were a number of cases there that you've talked about where, you know, I've made comments on those at the time. I think there are a few in there that I'm not sure you're representing in the right light.
I'll give you a good example. The comments you've referred to in relation to Pete\swhen he talked about the immigration period in the 1980s. Now that was a humanitarian intake where there weren't the normal assessments that would be done now.
There were things that were done at that time which the Immigration Department would tell you today, they would have done differently if they'd had the lessons of that period -
No, they learn lessons from all sorts of areas of intake –
I'm simply saying Waleed that what Peter was explaining were some lessons that were learned during a period of what was a fairly tumultuous time in the world –
If your question to me Waleed is this - which I believe it is - do I think that every single statement by any single member of the Liberal Party -
Has always been consistent -
Maybe you might want to rephrase it.
I’ve already –
I already said to you before that no, I don't think the Party has that problem, I don't think the Liberal Party as a total group has that problem. No, I don't and I don't think the National Party does either.
I didn't support that at the time.
He was a backbencher and remains a backbencher in the Government –
By the LNP, but again, do we want to get bogged down in this or do we want to move on to how we actually make things better? In terms of the individuals, I talk to all of my members and as I say, I try and lead by example. My example has been to work with the Muslim community very, very deeply. One of the hardest things I ever did as a politician was when Jamal rang me and there was a family, the El Baf family - I don't know if you remember the story about the four brothers.
Jamal rang me when I was Immigration Minister and said; “These four boys have left, we think they have gone to the Middle East to fight for ISIS.
” He said; “Is there anything you can do to try and prevent them from getting there?” I immediately got in touch with what was then the Department of Immigration and Border Protection, but sadly had already gone through clearances and they'd already gone through South East Asia. Those boys are all dead today to the best of our knowledge, we know two are dead. But Jamal rang me and said; “I'd like you to come and meet their parents”.
So I did and I sat down with them and I was also there with Tony Abbott's knowledge, who was the Prime Minister at the time.
I just sat there and listened to their grief. So, I have a keen understanding of what terrorist recruiters can do to destroy families and innocence, again, is the victim. It doesn't matter whether you're Muslim, it doesn't matter you're Christian; when evil comes it robs and it steals.
So I think the answer is not for us to retreat into tribes and try to herd people into tribes and say; “Well, you've got this problem, you've got that problem.” I think the answer is to do what I said before; let's try to better understand where we're all coming from, not try to line people up on teams.
Well, let me talk about –
You also said Peter was talking about the comment made by the Greens Senator. That comment was suggesting that I and Peter Dutton were responsible for the terrorist attacks in Christchurch. Now, would you find that a reasonable statement to make?
That I personally –
That was the clear implication Waleed.
I mean –
No sorry, you raised the issue, so let me address it.
Do you think it’s reasonable –
For any Senator to say that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs were responsible for the terrorist attacks in Christchurch?
Well I think –
It’s reasonable that Peter would have found that quite offensive –
In the heat of the moment when people are upset –
Waleed, the other night, you were very emotional and I’m sure you may have said some things about me, that based on our conservations since, you think may have been a bit over the top, about my own motives when it comes to these issues.
Well, you were on the other night and as we discussed today, you implied that Muslims couldn’t feel safe because they had a Prime Minister who somehow had been prejudiced against them. I don’t believe that’s true.
I don’t think you believe that’s true either.
People say things sometimes –
Well, I can only say anyone who may have talked to a journalist to smear me in that way. Because there have been a number of members who were at that meeting who have gone on the record to support the fact that it did not happen.
Phillip Ruddock was there and he said it didn't happen.
Tony Abbott was there and he said it didn’t happen.
David Johnson was there and he said it didn't happen.
I mean, I was there and I say it didn’t happen.
Okay –
Well -
No, no hang on –
Hang on –
No, I have to stop you there.
No Waleed, you have said that Andrew Robb said something that he did not.
No. What Andrew –
I’ll let you finish, I apologise.
No, that’s not true.
Waleed, that is not true. What is suggested is that I said that we should exploit, exploit concerns about Islam in the community to our political advantage.
No, that –
Andrew Robb –
Do you mind if I finish?
No, I’m sorry, Andrew Robb did not say that I did that.
Yeah, I was the shadow immigration minister at the time and I was very concerned about these issues and the way people were feeling in the community.
I was concerned that we needed to address them, which is what I've been doing inside and outside of the Parliament for the last 10 years of my life.
Yes, to lower them.
Yes, I was acknowledging that there were these fears in the community and that we had to address them, not exploit them. To actually seek to try and address them.
I have championed that view as a Minister, as a member Parliament for my entire public life –
Because I think we have responsibilities - as you were just asking me to do - that where we are concerned that people would have fears about these things, that we would seek to alleviate those fears.
No, this was just a shadow cabinet meeting.
Talking about policy.
Yes, that's my view and that was my view. It has always been my view.
No what I'm saying is that I was concerned about those fears in the community and that it has always been my practice - as I've demonstrated to you outside the Parliament and inside the Parliament - to seek to address those. Why else do you think I would have been working like I have as I explained to you before, why do you think I would be? That's been my experience and that’s why on Saturday after these horrendous attacks, I went to speak to those at the Lakemba Mosque, I was greeted with hugs and tears. Do you think that is the act of someone who hasn't been working closely with the Islamic community in Sydney for a long time?
Well can’t you see that what you’re suggesting –
Is at complete odds –
With the experience –
That I’ve been involved in over my last ten years of public life?
Doesn’t it sound odd that that report -
Two unnamed sources, who have never gone public.
Well who?
No, Andrew Robb is not one of those.
And I have.
Waleed let me just say for the record -
Well –
I want to rule a line under this issue. It never happened, I’ve always been deeply concerned about attitudes towards people of Muslim faith in our community. I entered the Parliament after one of the most horrible scenes that we've seen on our own soil on this issue and set about immediately to try and bring communities together.
I have always acted consistently with that in shadow cabinet, in the Cabinet, by my policy decisions as Minister and in my own personal conduct. So such a report is so at odds with my experience and actions, that I think that speaks for itself.
We are not going to do any preference deals with One Nation.
Those matters are determined by the Party when we know what the nominations are.
Yeah and we won't do any deals with One Nation -
Well what if Fraser Anning is running candidates?
Well, you tell me -
Well this is the point Waleed, I don't know who is going to nominate. In the electorate of Longman –
In the electorate of Longman – no, well you’ve raised the issue –
Waleed please let me answer one question.
Oh okay –
I'm just trying to answer your questions. I was raising the issue –
On the practical issue of Longman –
I am going to wait to see what all the nominations are and in our Party those decisions are made by the Party organisation. I know the Labor Party wants me to do a preference deal with them. I won't be doing a deal with the Labor Party or the Greens or anyone else.
The election nominations will be called, we will see the candidates and we will make our decisions at that time.
I’ve just answered the question as to how we're going to conduct ourselves in relation to preferences.
No, I said we’re going to make these decisions at the time nominations close and then we'll apply those decisions at that time as a Party organisation.
I’ve said we're going to make that decision at the time of the nominations closing.
Well, you’ll know when we make that decision at that time.
I'll be consulting with my own Party organisation, I won't be doing it through your program.
Because I'm part of a Party that has a process and that Party listens to a lot of people in it's organisation who are members of our Party. That is a decision that is actually taken in each state and territory division of the Liberal Party, by the President of that Party, as part of their preferences committee on which I will have representatives. That is respecting our process.
And I’ll be exercising that at that time.
No, all I’m saying at this stage is that we will never do a preference deal with One Nation and that we will settle those matters at the time of nominations closing, when we know who all the candidates are.
No, it just means what I just said.
We will make those decisions –
Clear at the time of the nominations closing, Waleed.
Well that's only relevant if in the cases that we're talking about, that’s what is known about the actual individuals who may be subject to transfers. That was the topic of that debate at the time and that's what was said.
Should we ignore the fact that if there are persons who do have those records, or for whom those issues are present, that we should ignore that?
Like it's taboo, you’re not allowed to mention it?
Well no, the bill actually could do that, if they were put in community detention in metropolitan parts of the city, that’s exactly –
No I'm sorry Waleed, the bill didn't do that. The bill didn't do that. So for those for whom that is a particular issue, and there is intelligence or information that relates to those individuals who have that as an issue for us, well of course we're going to take the necessary precautions.
Well sorry, we are the Government and we have to implement it. We know that's exactly what can happen and we can't resist it.
We're implementing that bill right now, it's not ours.
We are taking the advice on how it has to be implemented and we'll be doing that.
No, I think we're not going to sugar-coat to the public the implications of laws passing the Parliament and Waleed, it's important that you don't either.
In your commentary on these things, all journalists I think, have to be careful that they don't create a false impression of the risks that need to be managed.
The only people are described like that, are people that you could make that description of.
Well actually we’re talking about a number.
No, no Waleed, you've got to be honest with people. If a bill that was put forward and supported by the Labor Party, was going to be creating risks for managing the transfer of people into the community, then I'm not going to tell the Australian people what those risks don't exist. I'm not going to sugar-coat it.
There are real risks, there are very real risks.
I mean people used to accuse me of this when I was talking about what we needed to do to actually get our borders under control. They used to accuse me of all sorts of motives. But I was right, it needed –
My last advice on all of those of whom there were some serious concerns on character issues, I think was over about 50.
Not only those but also people who had serious character assessments –
They were actually published –
We had people with character concerns, over 50 people Waleed –
They were among those 50, that’s true.
So how many rapists – no, let me put this to you Waleed. How rapists and murderers should be transferred to the Australian community?
And they were wrong, they were wrong Waleed.
There only needs to be one Waleed, that’s my answer.
But they don’t.
They do not Waleed. I’m sorry, I’m the Prime Minister, I’m responsible for implementing it and I have the full availability of the Attorney General, the Attorney General’s Department, the Department of Home Affairs and their advice to me is, no, we don't have that power. So I don't know whose advice you're relying on, but I'm sorry, you don't know.
No it's more than one, it's well over that –
I've already told you there's, there's almost 60 actually who were identified as having serious character concerns, that in other circumstances we would never allow to be transferred to Australia. So that's enough –
Well, I’ve asked you the same question and you’re saying ‘no rapists’.
They exist and they are there –
And those crimes have been committed actually in Papua New Guinea.
There are a number, I don't have the numbers to hand, but this is getting into a semantic discussion. What I'm saying to you Waleed is this though; don't sugar-coat this stuff.
It doesn't excuse it.
Well I'm afraid mate, sometimes you could be accused of it.
Well you're saying that there was no risk Waleed.
And there was there was risk and you say it didn't exist because the bill didn't allow for it. I'm telling you that's wrong.
So I was always trying to be honest with the Australian people about the risk.
You mean particularly after Friday?
Well, exactly what I did do. The first step, call this out for what it was. Next step, go and sit down with Muslim brothers and sisters that I know and express my deepest and serious condolences and talk about the issues we needed to manage straight away.
On Sunday, I went to the Coptic Church in Arncliffe in Sydney, a community no stranger to shootings in churches, who understand probably more than most how deeply these things can affect communities.
I went there and spoke there, prayed there with my family. On Monday, I went to the Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce here in Melbourne and I gave a speech which talked about the need for Australians to see each other as individuals, hot herded into particular groups. That we could actually respect each other and the motives that sit behind each and every individual and not make assumptions about people based on what other people have said.
That we need to disagree better, not necessarily agree more.
That we didn't allow conflict in debate to become more sport than an entertainment, but that we were able to get behind that and actually have real community-building initiatives which are exactly the type of initiatives I announced on Wednesday of this week.
Initiative Together for Humanity, which we put $2.5 million in, initiatives like the one we announced today with Bachar Houli down there at Richmond at Punt Road. These types of programs which I've been supporting and my Government has been funding for years now.
That's what we need to do.
Well I have. So again Waleed, look to the experience that I've laid out for you tonight and don't prejudge me.
That's my form Waleed.
I'm happy to call out people, as others have sought to call me out on things, I'm not shy about doing these sorts of things. I'm not shy about doing these sorts of things because I know what my values are and I know what I have done in my life, to try and build these bridges between communities.
When I became Prime Minister I said I want to do three things; I wanted to keep the economy strong - because if you don't have a job you don't have a lot of choices. If the economy is not strong you can't pay for service like hospitals and schools.
Well I look forward to your support and we will be doing it.
Cheers.
Australia is the best place in the world to live and the future of our country depends so much on our economy. Why am I saying that today? Because the announcement I am making today, to invest almost half a billion dollars in our medical infrastructure, in our cancer-fighting infrastructure and our health infrastructure here today is made possible because of the strong economy and the Budget management that we’re pursuing. Today I’ve had the chance to talk to Lauren and to Finn and many other patients and it is a devastating prognosis that often attends the diagnosis of cancer.
As difficult as all of that is, to see the courage and the hope on the faces of the patients I've met today as a result of what's happening here at Peter Mac, I think is an absolute tribute to everybody who works here, everybody who researches here, everybody who contributes, whether through the Foundation or other means, the volunteers and others who come here and give people hope.
Melbourne is leading Australia's fight against cancer through facilities such as this. They're leading Australia's fight in the world today and that is happening right here at the Peter Mac Centre.
So today we are making a series of announcements which will mean that, for Australians who are diagnosed with cancer, the one thankful thing there is in that, is that they can fight it here in Australia, because of the services and the infrastructure and the medical professionals and the treatments that are available in this country, because of the strength of our society and the strength and prosperity of our country. So today we are making a series of announcements; $80 million to establish the Peter McCallum Cancer Centre National Centre of Excellence in Cellular Immunotherapy. This is groundbreaking work that is happening here.
This will enable this centre to take its treatment and capability from its current level, to a much greater scale.
To reach out and touch the lives of just so many more Australians. I've met Australians being treated here today from Tasmania, from South Australia, from my home town in Sydney, from here in Melbourne. This is a centre for all Australia and this is why our investment here today is for all Australians.
But it is very much a recognition of Melbourne leading not just here but around the world in what is taking place here.
Very much, if you like, the Boston of the Southern Hemisphere is what we're seeing right here in Melbourne.
As a Government, we are investing here. We are doubling down here. We are backing this centre in and everyone who works here, with this significant investment of $80 million further today.
Now, Greg will take you through more of the details of our announcement, which in total funding of some $116 million to the cancer research and treatment programs here, new hospital infrastructure worth some $152 million, including new emergency departments for families and children worth $40 million, focusing particularly on pediatrics.
I will ask Dr Katie Allen, our candidate for Higgins to speak more about that as Greg will. Medical research into medicines and treatment of some $112 million. More mental health care, especially for young people, some $16 million and more MRI units for patients when and where they need them, of some $100 million.
This is what you can do when you manage an economy well and we prosper as a country. This is how we can invest the dividend of a strong economy, back into the health and wellbeing of all Australians and recognise the compassion and the brilliance of the people who work here to change lives and give so many Australians hope. It is a great privilege to be here today to be making this announcement a Government committed to the healthcare of all Australians.
The person who has made this possible, in leading this announcement today, is Greg Hunt.
Greg Hunt is the best Health Minister a Coalition Government has ever had, his leadership on these issues, his compassion and his dedication to seeing these projects through has never been matched, in my view. We've had a lot of good Health Ministers, I'm pleased to say, but none better than Greg Hunt. I want to commend him for the work that he's done and invite him to make some remarks.
Thank you, Greg.
Thank you Dr Allen. So there it is, our Victorian health plan. Well done Greg in bringing this together.
We’re happy to take questions on this, I also want to thank the Victorian Government for their work, particularly on working together on those emergency department investments.
These are things that we’ve been working closely together on. I think people in Victoria just simply want to see us get on with the job, working closely with the State Government here and that’s exactly what we’re doing with this Victorian health plan.
So let’s take questions on that, particularly while we have the specialists and researchers and the clinical staff who are here on what we’ve announced today. Then of course we can move to other topics and we might excuse our partners, who don’t need to be here for that part of the press conference.
Any other questions on this topic? I know it was a very comprehensive presentation and I know you’re all terribly excited about all the detail, it’s all set out in the document here which will be circulated to you and you can get further information from that. I’m sure those here at Peter Mac Centre and others will be happy to assist with any other inquiries. I want to thank them – if there are no other questions - ?
Well, I’m always very happy to be here. I’m continuing my education on the AFL, which I always enjoy and you don’t have to twist my arm to get me to a sporting contest. There’s no shortage of those here in Melbourne and it’s wonderful to be back here today, you're right.
Last Friday I was here, announcing the fast rail project to Geelong, we have been announcing congestion-busting projects.
But today this is very special; to be able to be announcing this, this is a half a billion dollar investment in the future of Victoria's healthcare. But more than that, to ensure that Melbourne continues to lead the world in the fight against cancer.
Just before we go to politics, I'm going to thank everybody here today. Well done, good on you Finn. Finn's a New South Welshman, he's happy with the result too on the weekend.
I certainly was.
So?
Look, every part of the country matters. Melbourne matters, Bunbury matters, Townsville matters, Alice Springs matters. The whole country is what our Government is about ensuring is stronger.
Both a stronger economy, which means we can invest in these essential services that Australians rely on, keeping Australians safe and, of course, keeping Australians together, whether it's in our workplaces, or more broadly in our communities.
So, everywhere matters.
Well, when I have gone to the Governor-General, then people will know what day the election will be held on. There are several dates it can be held on and that's one of them.
Well, the Budget will be on Tuesday week, tomorrow week. It will be the first surplus Budget that has been handed down in this country since we had a Coalition Victorian Treasurer in Peter Costello 12 years ago. This demonstrates the work that has had to be done over the last five and a half years to get the Budget back into balance.
You vote Labor once, you pay for it for more than a decade. That is what happened back in 2007. Here we are in 2019.
That's how long it has taken to get the Budget back into balance, to overcome the serious economic damage and fiscal damage that was done to our Budget last time Labor was in office.
I can assure the people of Australia that I'm always for them earning more and keeping more of what they earn.
My record is lowering taxes for Australians. We currently have $144 billion worth of tax relief for all working Australians in this country. And wherever I get the opportunity to give Australians further tax relief, I never miss the opportunity.
This investment we're making today is going to save people's lives.
The National Party and the Liberal Party work closely together in coalition. We work constructively on all of these issues and we will continue to work constructively to ensure that Australia has a sustainable and reliable energy future. What we are not hearing from the Labor Party is how they are going to meet their emissions reduction targets.
I mean the Labor Party has a 4\sper cent emissions reduction target.
Bill Shorten can't even answer two basic questions; will he use carbon credit carry forward? Because Australia has over achieved, particularly stemming from Greg's work when he was Minister for the Environment, we had a 1.1 billion carbon abatement turnaround. We went from a deficit of over 700 million tonnes to a surplus of 369 million tonnes on our Kyoto 2020 target.
We’ll be carrying that forward over to our 2030 commitment.
Bill Shorten can't that question; will he use the credits that our Government has earned to meet that target? And will he be using taxpayer money to buy foreign carbon credits from overseas? He can't even answer the two most basic questions when it comes to carbon abatement.
But the big one, even more significant than that is his policies - on the best-case scenario - will cost Australians $9,000 a year. That's with taxes on their electricity, taxes even on hamburgers when it comes to the impact on the agricultural sector. Bill Shorten needs to come clean.
He's been Leader of the Opposition for five and a half years and he still can't tell you how he is going to meet his reckless emission target, which will cost Australian families dearly, whether it’s at the petrol pump, in takeout or in paying the household electricity bills.
We'll continue to work constructively with the National Party, because we are part of the one government and we always come to resolutions on important issues for Australia's future, including on that.
Well, I'm working with the Victorian Government and I welcome Michael O'Brien's support as well. At the moment, I'm delivering infrastructure with Daniel Andrews and here today we're delivering pediatric emergency departments with Daniel Andrews. I think that people in Victoria just expect the Premier and the Prime Minister to work together.
I notice when I was here the other week, they called us travel buddies when it came to the Melbourne Airport link.
Well, that’s true, I'm very happy to work with Dan Andrews on the infrastructure and the health services that Australian need here in Victoria. I think we've demonstrate add very productive working relationship and I thank him for that.
I've already answered that question in an extensive interview last week. We're not doing any preference deals. Our Party has its process for doing determining those issues at the time of nominations closing.
Thanks very much.
G’day Neil, good to be with you. I’m sorry we couldn’t catch up the other day.
Well I'm not commenting on where it might come from other than to say the sophistication, as I said in the Parliament yesterday, has led agencies to advise that this is a state actor but I'm not...
Well it means it’s a government. But we're not in any position to attribute that to any particular nation.
We're not in a position to do that.
No what I'm saying is you don't go and make those claims wildly.
I'm not suggesting you are. So we don't have any information, I don't have any information that would enable me to make that claim.
I've said what I've said, Neil. That's a very specific wording I've used.
Well it's not up to me to have suspicions and share them, it's up to me to to speak to the facts as we know them and what we can be very confident of.
No.
Well I'm not responsible for the media.
We work constructively with China. I've met wit\sas well as the President and we have a very important relationship with China and I'm very positive about particularly the economic growth of China. I mean, there's some suggestion that Western countries don't want to see and want to frustrate China's growth.
We don't share that view.
We want to see China do well. I've just been down in Melbourne recently for, you know, Chinese New Year celebrations. I think this is one of the key points - we celebrate their prosperity.
And you know we've got one point two million Australians of Chinese heritage in Australia.
And we celebrate those links and they’re positive.
I'm not going to get into a discussion on security matters.
Well again, whatever we might say would be a matter that I would consult with the National Security Committee of Cabinet.
Well yesterday Alastair MacGibbon I think sort of went into that and it's not clear what the precise purpose of this is at this stage. But those investigations continue and there is no suggestion that there is any, any at this point, any greater access to information\sBut these things are concerning, as I said yesterday.
.
.
Well I mean, people can make all sorts of suppositions. But I've just deal with the information that I have.
No, and I said that. There's no evidence to suggest that at this point.
Well that’s supposition, that’s speculation. And what I said in the Parliament yesterday… see, as Prime Minister I've got to stay on the facts
The facts say that there is there is no evidence of that. But clearly one of the general areas of risk, not specific to what I'm, you know, I've identified in the Parliament yesterday is that we need to make sure Australia is protected from this. This is why we introduced the foreign interference laws into the Parliament and.
.
.
Well we did and have been.
The political parties do this under their own steam, just like any company or business does. And that's why all all businesses, all political organizations. You know, even 3AW’s website and systems.
I mean, everybody is responsible for their own security on their own sites just like they are for protecting their own home.
That's not clear. I've heard that being suggested, but there's nothing to suggest, at least in front of me, that has occurred.
Well anything's possible but that doesn’t mean it happened.
Well what Labor did last week was weaken them.
Well it's not quite clear what they've done and how that will play out. I think what's happened in Nauru is a good example of what happens and how Labor didn’t think through what playing around with border protection laws will do. I mean, there are consequences.
Well I'm still getting reports in of exactly what they've decided to do and what the legal force of that is\sBut look that's a matter for them and it's a reminder that it's their country.
What Labor did was weaken our border protection.
Well what Nauru has indeed done and, that it is legally able to be done, well we’ll make our assessment on that. But there's no leave pass here for Labor. Labor weakened the border protection laws last week wilfully, wilfully.
They were always at risk of coming. That never changes.
Of course there is. There's always that. When you weaken the border protection laws, as was said last night by Mike Pezzullo the Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs, that always increases risk.
Now I have taken actions on the advice of these agencies, particularly Home Affairs, to take a number of step which has included the reopening of Christmas Island, which was recommend to us by the Secretary of Home Affair.
And to strengthen what we were doing with Operation Sovereign Borders and that included everything from our strategic communications through to posturing in terms of where our assets are and what they're doing and that's what we’ve done\sWe had to strengthen it because Labor weakened it.
They were always not going to accept everybody, that's their own.
Well for reasons that would suggest that they weren't welcome in the United States because they'd be concerned about who they were.
They’re matters for the US and not for me to comment on.
Well not under our laws, but they can under Labor's.
That’s exactly right and this is the point we're making. Because in a lot of these cases, these people they won't have serious criminal convictions. But they may well be facing charges for such convictions and not have been sentenced and what Labor did to the laws means there is no ability for us to stop those transfers.
The other group, Neil, is the group that have been found not to be refugees.
So they're there because they refused to go home. They're not refugees, they’re living in the community in Nauru and they can also be brought to Australia where they can, you know, engage the court process and play the system like always happens.
Oh no, we’re good, we’re good.
Well you know I'll be taking that up with Border Force. There had been a review into these matters internally. But it was my job to get him home and I'm very pleased that Hakeem has come home, and it was great to meet him and his wife recently in Canberra.
No I don't...
I think that is actually a bit of a leap, Neil.
There are many other ways that Hakeem would have been kept in (inaudible) other than just that incident. But I'm not suggesting that incident was not something that needs to be addressed. But it would be wrong to assume that other than for that that wouldn't have occurred.
I don't think that’s correct.
Well that is not what happened.
Well no he didn't. He thought he was paying for them.
He has paid.
Because he wasn't aware. He wasn't aware.
No that's the statement that he's made and he had nothing to do with the issuing of the contract, by the way, that had been issued prior and Ministers aren’t involved in those decisions. There's a clear separation that minister… any suggestion that the two were linked would be complete rubbish.
Well that's why he's cleaned it up.
No I think that's a bit unfair to put it in those terms.
There was that oversight which had been identified and he fixed it up. I mean what more can he do?
But he didn't take free tickets in the first place.
He was fully… they were going to bill him and he didn’t get billed and that was drawn to his attention he paid the bill.
That’s not true.
They were written to and they were asked to respond which they did and they provided responses and the police have not sought any further statement from them. So they have cooperated.
They provided a response and the police have accepted that response and they haven't sought any I'm advised, any further statement.
Well I'm just saying that cooperate with the investigation and nothing's been sought from them. And remember what this is about. This is about the alleged…
Misuse of union funds by the AWU, Bill Shorten’s union. There was a raid because the police believe they were destroying evidence that may have suggested that the Shorten’s union was sending money, allegedly, to GetUp! and even to his own benefit. So that's what this is about.
So Bill Shorten should cooperate and actually provide the minutes of meetings and the other things that are necessary for the police to do their investigation.
I think he's the one with the questions to answer and obviously to be cooperating.
They should, you’re dead right Neil. People should cooperate with police investigations and my Ministers have.
I will continue to work with the Victorian government. Let's just be very clear. What there is, is a contingent liability in in the Budget.
What does that mean? That means if the state government had chosen to trigger investment in the East West Link, then the Commonwealth would have raised that money to support that project.
So it's not like there's three billion dollars sitting actually there to spend on the road. That money would have to be added to the bottom line of the Budget and that would have to be allocated, so it would have to be new money. But I can tell you, we've already put in the last Budget there was over seven billion dollars we invested in Victorian infrastructure, we’re investing in busting infrastructure all over Melbourne and I'm keen to do more and I'm keen to work with the Victorian Government to achieve that.
And we've got a Budget coming up in April and we'll have a bit more to say that then.
Look all I've been doing Neil is , showing Australians what our record is on national security, on the economy and that's what guarantees essential services. People I'm finding when I when I'm relating this to them, are responding well. I think they're focusing very much on the future and what it all means for them.
I think, you know, the Canberra Bubble and all the noise here which people go on to, they're telling me very clearly that they're not interested in, there interested in what's going ahead in the future to the extent that is being well received, I welcome it.
Of course. I mean, I didn't take the job on to, you know, to do anything else but that. I took the job one because I believed it was essential that the Liberal and National parties will return to this next election because the Labor Party will change it all.
The retirees tax, the housing taxes, busting the borders - all of this, Labor will change it all.
Yes.
Because our party resolved that last year. An elected Liberal Prime Minister will now have the security of that arrangement over the next term. That's what we saw last year.
I'm not contemplating that situation. I'm contemplating being re-elected and ensuring that we continue to keep Australia safe, secure borders, and keep our economy strong.
Not in my mind. I’m dealing with the reality. You know me, Neil.
I’ll leave nothing on the field.
Oh a big smiley face, mate. A big smiley face. You know me, I’m that cheery.
How about you? I'd love to know what yours is.
Good on you Neil, cheers mate.
G’day Ben.
That’s alright, Tony was making a lot of sense there, I didn’t want to interrupt him.
Well it is. He hasn’t got the ticker for it when it comes to this stuff. I mean when it comes to national security, you don’t trade in it, it’s an area of pure conviction, you do things because you believe it.
You don’t sort of flip and flop, which he has done here.
It’s very similar to what happened with Kim Beazley all those years ago and John Howard. It’s almost like a rerun and this is the great problem I have with Labor; they can never, ever, ever learn the lesson. They think they can fiddle with this stuff, just like they did when they got rid of temporary protection visas in 2008 and now the boats come.
They think; “Oh, it won’t make any difference.
”
That is the great risk we’re now facing. I’m going to do everything to make sure that doesn’t happen and the only thing standing between a boat and Australia is me and Peter Dutton and our Government. They know our resolve.
But if we were not there, I can guarantee you they’d be coming thick and fast, that’s what would happen.
Now if one comes, it will be the result of this weakening.
That doesn’t surprise me at all, because what they look for is a change of policy. Now, we haven’t changed our policy, but what the Parliament has done is to force one upon us. That’s just how the people smugglers work.
See all these journalists down here in Canberra, in the bubble, they think all these little nuances matter - and the Labor Party think it - to the people smugglers.
They just turn up to someone sitting up there in Indonesia and they say: “Guess what, they changed the laws down there in Australia, you can get on a boat now. Let’s go” that’s what they do. They think they’re all sort of glued to listening to journalists down here in Canberra, explaining the intricacies of these things.
It’s nonsense.
Yeah.
They’re criminals. That’s what criminals do, they lie.
I could never confirm that one way or the other Ben, because that’s intelligence that I receive as Prime Minister. So I can’t comment on that for obvious reasons, but what my job is, is to make sure that beast doesn’t wake up. I can tell you, Bill has given it a big poke, that’s what he has done.
He’s done it willfully and he’s done it because he can’t stand up to the far left of his own Party.
I mean you’ve got Tanya Plibersek running immigration and border protection for the Labor Party now. Just picture this for me; Bill Shorten chairing the National Security Committee with Tanya Plibersek sitting alongside him and whoever else they’ve got in there - and they are going to decide whether boats get turned back? I mean what they’ve done is, they’ve already said they’re going to give permanent visas to people who arrive illegally by boat, enter Australia illegally. They’ve already said that.
They’re going to get rid of what we put back in place.
They’ve now basically trashed offshore processing as we know it and they’re telling the Australian people, “Oh trust us, we’ll turn boats back.” Give me a break. Bill Shorten does not have the ticker or the mettle for that and he demonstrated that in the Parliament yesterday and if he ever tells anyone, “Oh the Coalition and us, we have the same border protection policy.
” That’s complete guff.
We don’t. He doesn’t have the strength for it, he doesn’t have the policies for it, he doesn’t have a clue about it.
That’s exactly what happens, that’s exactly what happens. So look, this is why they play with this stuff thinking they can appease people in their own party. I mean, if Bill Shorten had any ticker he would have stood up to them and said; “No, no, we need to have strong borders.
We said that the Coalition had got it right and that we’d stuffed it up and that we can never go back there.
” That’s what he should have said. But he didn’t do that. He just rolled over.
This bloke is seriously, seriously weak.
I remember the debates. I remember when that boat crashed up on the jagged rocks of Christmas Island. I remember the debates in the Parliament when the Labor members came in and they cried in the Parliament.
The tears have run dry because their memories have gone.
That’s what’s happened. They have not learned the lessons from those tragic events and they are doomed to repeat them if they’re elected.
Absolutely. I mean, I know what works. I know from bitter and difficult experience what works.
Because I lived it and I did it with Tony and Peter who has done it since and we’re part of that team.
And we’re going to do everything we can to make sure one doesn’t come. If one does come, it’s on Bill’s head and if one doesn’t come, I can assure you it’s because they know that Peter and I and Tony, we’re all still here and we’re going to do everything we can to stop them.
Well, there are many privileges to being Prime Minister but the greatest of those is to meet Australians when they’re facing some of their greatest challenges and seeing their true mettle. This is on display here again today in Townsville.
Yesterday I had the opportunity to see it down in Tasmania and today I see exactly the same spirit, exactly the same courage, exactly the same care and compassion for each other. It is a great privilege to see this in our country. It is who we are and I want to thank everyone here in Townsville for all the incredible work they’re doing.
We are here at the Ignatius College evacuation centre, run by the Red Cross.
I want to thank the Red Cross for the tremendous work they've been doing here. I'm joined, of course, by Linda Reynolds the Assistant Minister, by Phillip Thompson, the LNP candidate here in Herbert who has been out there filling bags, helping people, getting them off roofs and being part of the general effort just as a member of the community and former Defence Force person here in Townsville. We've got George here as well, as you know, our local member and Ian Macdonald who has been here for 30 years in Townsville.
I'm most glad that both Ian and George can join me here today as we've gone around and have been getting our briefings.
As the waters recede here and we start to move from the response phase to the recovery phase, there will be big shocks for the community. As we've seen this morning, as they return to their homes, as they assess the damage to their homes; yes, there’s the physical loss, but there is also the mental shock and just coming to terms with it. We saw that firsthand this morning.
I'm pleased that we were able to provide some comfort, but I really want to thank the Defence Forces and emergency services personnel, QPOL and everybody for the work they’re doing here.
The gratitude from the people from the surrounding areas is sensational and it comes naturally, because they've seen what people have done. I mean to hear stories of how people were evacuated in the middle of the night - floodwaters, dark, with kids - the fact that we've had in that, the loss of life, I'm aware of a couple of reports which aren’t confirmed, but the fact that people are safe today here in Townsville I think is an extraordinary achievement and is something that I think the people of Townsville can pat themselves on the back on. They've held together and they've kept each other safe.
As you go through evacuation centre here and you talk to people in other places, the homes that they've been put up in, there is going to be a lot more of that.
Over the next few weeks there is going to be a lot more of that.
On Monday as you know, here in Townsville I announced that the emergency disaster payment was available straight away. That's as of Monday and the disaster allowance also kicked in from Monday. I will ask Linda to talk a about it more about that.
So for those eligible for those payments - and there will be a large number here in Townsville - I would encourage them to get in touch with Human Services, Centrelink, to make sure they're accessing those immediate payments.
There will be tens of millions spent here in Townsville to support the local community get back up on their feet, just in those cash assistance payments alone, income support payments. Then of course there is the work that will be done, Category 3 assistance. I understand the Premier has announced that she is requesting that, in her statement at a media conference just a few minutes ago.
Of course we’re happy to provide that.
Every request that has been made of us, our answer is; “Yes and quickly”. We also initiated last night, I gave the instruction for the Defence Forces to support airlifts. There is one that will be getting off the ground very soon and that is going into Cairns.
We need those shelves stocked and to the extent that the grocers and the food retailers need further support, that will be available to them to make sure we keep the shelves stocked and that people can have the basic necessities looked after.
So it is a matter of thanking all of those who have planned, who have prepared. I mean, here alone in Townsville, about 5,500 serving men and women and they’re serving their own local community right now. They are out there, many of whom - hundreds of them - their own homes are affected and they have been out there helping others.
I think that's a tribute to our serving men and women, but to all of those who are putting in at the moment, on behalf of a very grateful nation, thank you for being great Australians.
Linda, why don’t you talk a bit more about those payments and the immediate next step?
Thank you, Linda and good on you 3rd Brigade, very proud of you, very proud. Insurance companies as well, they will be stepping up. I will be expecting them to step up and that's what I believe they will do.
We will make sure that they do so, but I have no reason to think that they won't.
So we will be looking for them to be here and doing what you’d expect of them in these circumstances as well.
So, happy to take some questions on the issues here and then as usual happy once we've done that to extend to other matters of the day.
Look, it was frankly quite overwhelming. I think people are in shock. I think the kids are amazingly resilient, but for mums and dads as they look at their kids and they think about, you know, just how tight things got trying to get out the other night and I think they are very grateful that - while there have been property losses and damage - they just look at each other and say: "Thank goodness we've got each other.
" You can replace things, but you can't replace loved ones.
But the real shock the community we were in this morning. Some people hadn't been there that long, you know, it’s a lot of young families, they've worked so hard to get themselves into these homes. To see them just damaged so badly, it must just be heartbreaking and it clearly was.
So to provide some comfort, of course, that was our pleasure to do today, but the real work is to make sure that they can get through the clean-up and rebuild their lives.
We know that's what's happens, it's just going to be tough. It’s going to be tough for a while.
There are a lot of not-for-profits who can help with that, too.
Look, I'm not going to get into those issues today. I mean I'm here today to lend my support and the country's support to the people of Townsville. With all natural disasters, there is always work that is done following that, to learn the lessons and they are really matters for the State Government and the local authorities, I think, to determine.
I'm sure they will work through those issue.
Right now, my priority is making sure we get the emergency assistance payments to people. That people know that they are there and that they can take advantage of those and that can help them deal with the most immediate needs that they have today.
Well, last time I was here I was announcing $100 billion for water infrastructure here in Townsville. So there’s been no shortage of our commitment to infrastructure here in North Queensland. We have been investing heavily here and we will continue to do that.
I know Phil Thompson has been a great advocate for that and we’re happy to back him and George and Ian in on those projects.
So I think our record here speaks for itself on those things.
Well lessons will be taken from these events and there is a State responsibility here as well. We will work with state governments, but our commitment in the hundreds of millions that we've committed here in North Queensland and more, I think speaks for itself.
Well, I think I've answered your question.
George, you want to comment?
Any others? We can have a one-on-one interview, but I’m happy to share it around a bit.
Okay let's stay on Townsville, we are in Townsville.
My thinking right now is about the people of Townsville and making sure they get the emergency support they need. I'm not engaging in broader policy debates today, I'm engaging in today is the needs of people here on the ground, people in evacuation centres, with some trepidation going back into their homes and finding what they're going to find. That's what I'm focused on today, not politics.
If you’d like to move to other issues, we can do that.
No.
I've set out what we propose to do. I won't compromise our border protection system. If the Labor Party want to support the Phelps bill and the boats start again, it's on their head.
We are going to take action on all 76 recommendations coming from the Royal Commission. I want to commend the Treasurer and his team for ensuring that the Government was able to put out a full response to the Royal Commission's report which we did over the weekend and took that through the normal process. That means that markets both had certainty yesterday and today, I should say, which has been very important.
We've been taking action when it comes to the financial sector now for years. The Banking Executive Accountability Regime, the Australian Financial Complaints Authority, $176 million extra for resources for enforcement and now we’re moving forward on the compensation schemes and through the industry to ensure that people get their right of hearing when it comes to the matters they are concerned about. They are important recommendations.
We've considered them carefully.
We’re taking action on all 76.
The Labor Party might want to engage in all sorts of politics on this. We are just getting on with it, because we've been getting on with it for years now. In fact, our actions have already gone beyond what the royal commission has actually recommended, because we've been taking action on this issue for years.
I’d just refer to what I said to you last year, I expressed last year my own regret as Treasurer when it came to being very focused on the issues of financial system stability, but I expressed my own regret at some of the human factors that needed greater consideration in terms of calling the Royal Commission. But let me be frank; I called the Royal Commission. I introduced the Banking Executive Accountability Regime.
We introduced the Australian Financial Complaints Authority.
We introduced the additional resources and support for ASIC. We acted on the Financial Systems Inquiry that we implemented when we came to Government in 2013.
As a government, we have been taking action on this issue from the day we were first elected. Labor were in Government for 6 years; Storm Financial, financial crisis after financial crisis. Bill Shorten was the Financial Services Minister for goodness sake.
Did he call a Royal Commission then? No.
Did he take action then? No.
Our government has taken action from the day we were elected on these issues. I expressed my regret last year and I meant it, but we just got on with it. Australians know it's about the action that you take, so I initiated the Royal Commission.
I've responded to the Royal Commission as Prime Minister, with the Treasurer and our entire team.
We are taking action on all 76 recommendations.
I refer you to my comments last year, I said I regretted that last year.
As Treasurer you’re always going to be focused and you are going to be careful about what the potential impacts are on a financial system on which everybody's livelihoods depend. Your mortgage, your loan, everything goes through the financial system. I was being very careful.
You could accuse me of being overly cautious and I was concerned in particular about what it would mean for credit restrictions in the economy and how that could slow the economy down.
Now we know that that has been one of the things that actually has happened. That has impacted on the economy. But we've called it, we've done it, it was done, I think in a very timely and thorough way and I want to thank particularly Justice Hayne and all of his team for the very thorough job that they did.
Over 10,000 cases, submissions that they carefully considered which have informed the recommendations that they've put forward.
So we've just got on with it. The politics of this - who cares? It’s not about the politics, it’s about those who are impacted by the egregious behaviour of the banks and the policies of those banks. They’re the ones who the Royal Commissioner has called out and he in particular has said - just as I did when the Laker Inquiry came down from APRA when I was Treasurer - he called out the boards of those banks, the boards of these big public companies and he has laid the blame fairly at their feet.
That’s exactly where it should be.
I don’t believe there is a conflict of interest, I mean I called a Royal Commission on the banks. I think that speaks for itself. I also introduced the bank levy you might remember.
They didn’t like that too much either.
That would be a false impression. I mean the fact that I instituted the bank levy I think shows very clearly that on every occasion I’ve always acted on behalf of the Australian customer. What we’re going to be very careful of as we take action on all of these 76 recommendations is that we’re going to be very careful we don’t unwittingly put even more power in the hands of the banks.
Yeah it was a difficult period coming into the back end of the year and you know I want to see the economy strengthen. But that’s a reminder of the tough headwinds we’re facing. It’s a reminder of why you need people who know what they’re doing when it comes to managing a Budget and ensuring that we have good economic policies in place.
I mean at the beginning of last week I was up here in Queensland again and I was down in Brisbane.
I released the second iteration of our economic plan; getting taxes down, supporting small and family businesses, investing in the infrastructure that Australians need, our defence procurement policies, expanding our markets. All of this is designed to ensure that our economy is more resilience and stronger.
You know, when you’ve got a stronger economy, it means you can turn up here and ay we’re going to spend tens of millions providing disaster recovery. I cannot allow it to be said that the Government will not to everything and pay every bill to support people here in Townsville or in Tasmania. There can be no suggestion by anyone that the Commonwealth is not doing everything that we should be doing and I’d say even more.
My plan is not to get in the way, my plan is to be here, show my support as I’ve done today and then get out of their hair and allow them to get back to what they’re doing. My team here will remain and they’ll continue to do things here in North Queensland but my purpose with coming today and It’s just today to show my support for the people of Townsville, just as I did for the people of Tasmania, particularly down in the Huon Valley. That’s why I’ve been here to see things firsthand.
So as we go back to Parliament next week and as my Cabinet meets and as Ian and George in particular and Phil and Linda report back to us on further steps that we might take, I’ve seen it for myself.
Australia has always, where people have come through the right method and made their applications for asylum in Australia, we are one of the most generous countries in the world. But we do insist that people go through a proper process for doing that and we’ll always insist on those proper processes. But you know, Australians, we’ve had the Women at Risk programme and I increased the numbers in the Women at Risk programme when I was Minister many years ago.
That means thousands and thousands and thousands of women have come to Australia under that programme and I’m very pleased that as a Government, that’s been one of our real achievements.
We have supported more women at risk through our refugee and humanitarian programme than previous governments. We upped the intake. We made sure we’ve been able to respond to that and we’ll continue to do that.
Just recently in fact David Coleman further increased that intake for the Women at Risk programme.
It’s been one of our most successful components of our refugee and humanitarian programme.
Well they can apply for asylum.
Well I haven’t seen that report, I was flying up here last night so I haven’t seen the report. But people can apply.
It hasn’t been established to me that it is what’s happening.
I’ve already responded to that.
Well you know Commissioner Hayne was pretty sharp in his assessment and I think that gives them a lot to reflect on.
I wouldn’t be so bold as to suggest, but I think Commissioner Hayne was pretty sharp.
I’m not a commentator. What I know is Greg Hunt has been serving his community since 2001 and he’s done an extraordinary job. He’s a great local member and he’s a fantastic Minister and I’m so pleased to have him in my team and that’s why he’ll be back as part of my team after the next election.
It’s our intention to go to that election and to ensure that Australia can have the strong economy that it needs for the next decade.
Now you don’t become a resilient nation by making your economy weaker. The Labor Party wants to put $200 billion worth of extra taxes on the economy. That will just drag our economy down.
Self-funded retirees, all retirees, are not exempt.
The arrogance that they have shown towards those retirees – and they’re here experiencing floods in Townsville – and they’ve got a $5 billion tax coming their way from Bill Shorten. The way that they have just arrogantly dismissed those people’s concerns I think speaks volumes. If they’re this arrogant to you before an election, imagine what Bill Shorten would be like if he actually won one.
He thinks he’s already got it in the bag.
Great to be back Leigh.
No, Leigh, I mean, just as well I’m a fighter when you listen to what you’ve just relayed out there which is I think is a particularly pessimistic way to look at things. I’m not looking at things like that at all.
What I’ve announced today is that we’ve got a goal, a pledge in fact of one and a quarter million new jobs and that’s not a vague promise because we’ve already delivered 1.2 million jobs as a government since we were first elected so that’s what I’m focussed on; a stronger economy to guarantee the essentials that Australians rely on.
That’s our record as a government, a good strong policy record and a clear plan that I announced today to take us into the future. Not a future with higher taxes but a future of a stronger economy which Australians need.
No that’s actually not true, Leigh, I mean doing what we’ve pledged today on jobs would actually not be at the peak rate of jobs growth that we’ve achieved over the last couple of years so I think that-
No, no not at all, Leigh. One of the marks of our economic management is that we’ve always exceeded expectations. One of the reasons that as Treasurer I was able to ensure that we maintained our AAA credit rating is I said we would hit a surplus in 2021, well we’re going to hit it in 19/20.
Well that was last year, Leigh, and what we’re focussed on is the plan we’re taking to the next election. It’s a plan based on our policy successes as a-
…government over the last five, I know your point is-
Your point is about politics-
My break over the summer involved talking to people who were sharing with me about their need for having their job secure, being able to get home in time to spend time with their families which is why today I announced another $240 million going into urban congestion busting projects here in South East Queensland and that’s what we’re focussed on; the things that actually improve people’s lives. We’ve got a great track record of delivering on infrastructure because people can see the earth machine, moving machinery on sites now.
We’ve got a great record on tax cuts because we’ve passed that through the Parliament with legislation. We’ve got a great track record on bringing the budget back to surplus because we will have the first surplus achieved by a government in 12 years when Josh brings that down on the 2nd April this year.
So that’s our policy record. What you’re talking about is politics. That’s a different thing.
No what I said today is my goal is to see that debt gone, net debt gone by 2030. Now the decisions that made in the next three years in the budget will determine what happens with that budget over the next ten years. How do I know that? When Labor last came in 2007 the decisions they took in their first term actually led to the debt position we are in today.
So no it’s not fantasy, it’s fair dinkum\sThe decisions that are taken and in the next budget, the budget after that, the budget after that will determine the debt trajectory of our nation and the tax trajectory-
Well because we’ve had to wind back the deficits of Labor and get the budget back into balance. You can’t reduce debt, Leigh, if you’re still running deficits. And so we’ve had to take down, from the record deficits of Labor, to bring the budget back into a surplus position for the next financial year.
Now you can’t pay down debt until you get back into surplus and it has taken us the last five and a half years to wind back the baked in spending excesses of the Labor Party, to get the budget under control, and now we’ve turned the corner on debt and if we keep making those decisions that’s why my goal is you keep making those decisions and you will wipe out debt within 10 years.
If you go down Labor’s path, you won’t.
Correct.
Well I think it’s just fundamental economics 101, Leigh.
No, they abolished taxes at the same time, Leigh. They actually lessened the overall individual tax burden on Australians. That’s why I don’t want to see, and I’ve legislated it at this end, in 94 per cent of cases, more than 32.
5 cents in the dollar in tax.
I’ve already cut taxes for small business. Today, I announced we’re cutting taxes further for small business by increasing the instant asset write off to $25,000 and that’s over $750 million worth of small businesses’ own money that they get to keep.
Lower taxes have been a key part of our economic plan that has generated record jobs growth, 1.2 million. The strongest growth in a year for young people, for people over 55, for women, right across the board, getting people off welfare and into work and a key part of our economic plan has been lower taxes.
Labor wants to put a sheet anchor on the economy in $200 billion in higher taxes.
Australia has had 27 years of continuous economic growth. We are at the top of the leader pack when it comes to advanced developed economies in the world for economic growth, the world is looking to us in terms of how we’ve been able to succeed and how we’ve been able to succeed as a government is by keeping taxes low, backing small business, investing in infrastructure so people can get home on time and tradies can spend more time on the time and not in a traffic jam, expanding our export markets, defence industry procurement plans. I mean, this is how we’ve been growing the economy and the plan I announced today builds on that success.
Well migrants form part of the overall population flows into the country, we don’t have a breakdown of that, Leigh.
I don’t have those figures to hand, Leigh. What I do know is that population growth has not run as high as jobs growth. So that means jobs growth has been at a higher rate than population growth and has been running at a higher rate than migration growth.
What I’m saying, Leigh, is that all Australians who are living here are getting more jobs today than they were before. When we came to office, the rate of jobs growth in Australia under Labor was 0.2 per cent, today, it’s 2.
2 per cent.
It’s 11 times higher. We inherited a basket case of a jobs program under the Labor Party and we’ve turned it into one of the biggest jobs generating governments in the history of the country.
Well in principle this is what our intention would be, but we’ve obviously got to see a report before we make a decision on that and that’s why the Treasurer has announced today that in a very measured process, over the weekend, once we receive that report which will be in the middle of a market day so you wouldn’t go and release it while the markets were open, the government will consider that over the weekend and provide an interim and initial, if not final, response on the Monday after the lockup after markets close. Now that’s important to ensure that there’s stability in the financial system, you don’t go shocking financial markets, you take your time on this. But I think that is a reasonable timeframe to ensure the Royal Commission report is released in a timely way and done so in a way which maximises stability for the financial system.
I’m going to wait to see what he recommends, I’m not going to speculate on it. But I want to commend Commissioner Hayne for the outstanding job he has done. He has kept it in the time frame, he has got it done.
He has also been very mindful, I think, of the impact of this Royal Commission on the financial system, and I think he’s been very careful not to exacerbate problems, particularly around credit restrictions.
Now we have seen a fair bit of that happening. That has been impacting on the economy. So it’s important we ensure stability on how we respond to this report, and making sure the economy can continue to kick along without any unnecessary shocks.
It is actually.
Well who is creating that perception? The Labor Party have.
No they haven’t, because they have made very clear their personal reasons for doing that. Just like Gai Brodtmann did, just like Kate Ellis did, just like Jenny Macklin did, just like Wayne Swan did, just like Jacinta Collins has done, and what I find upsetting is, you know me Leigh, I’m for family values and when people raise issues like miscarriages with me, I’m not going to be so insensitive as to not understand fully the reasons for that decision. I think it’s pretty disappointing that Bill Shorten would cast a slur on Liberal members for genuine family reasons for leaving, but when it comes to Labor members it’s ok, I think this shows a failing of character, he should have just wished us well.
He should have just wished Kelly O’Dwyer well.
It’s ok for Tim Hammond, a bloke from Western Australia to say he is not going to stay one term of parliament, but for Kelly, who has served the parliament for almost 10 years, for her to leave because of quite personal reasons, particularly relating to issues that I’m sure all Australians would want to wish her well, I just find frankly quite disappointing.
I’m committed to winning the next election, and in the Liberal Party…
It’s a tough job. That’s not my plan. Australia can’t afford Bill Shorten as a Prime Minister so I’ve got every energy flying into that and the leadership of the Liberal Party is always the gift of the parliamentary Liberal Party and I never make any presumptions upon it.
We’ll go through the normal process of setting those Leigh, I’ve always been very available to 7.30 and always enjoy our friendly chats.
Good on you Leigh. Good to talk to you.
G’day Kier, it's great to be here in the studio and great to be here in Cairns again.
Well as you say, this is not my first visit to Cairns. I’ve been here many times and last time I was here last year it was $10 million for the innovation hub out there at JCU. Yesterday, you’re right, we announced $60 million to free up 150 beds, 150 new beds at the Hospital, but which also sees the great work of JCU and their Tropical Medicine Centre continue on, that’s fantastic.
We’re heading up to Cooktown today, it’s the 250th anniversary of the voyage of then Lieutenant James Cook who he went on to be Captain James Cook. He stopped in two places along the east coast. One was in my electorate of Cook down there in southern Sydney in Kurnell and the other one - a much longer stay as Warren Entsch reminds me all the time \sup here in north Queensland, he maintains he had a much better time.
So I’m looking forward to going up there.
There’s a lot of excitement about that 250th anniversary and we’re investing in a range of local projects, upgrades for tourist infrastructure, parks, these sorts of things, which commemorate those events. But also announcing the voyage, the re-enactment of the voyage that will call in all around the east coast of Australia for the 250th anniversary. That’ll be great for tourism and it’ll also be a great opportunity just to talk about our history; the view from the shore, the view from the ship and very much understanding those two stories like we do in my home electorate every year, with our meeting of two cultures ceremony on the 29th of April.
I think this voyage will provide an opportunity to tell those shared stories.
Yes, it’s about that for both projects.
Yeah, the $5.8 million that we’re spending up in Cooktown, that includes the reconciliation of the Rocks Precinct, the development of the Botanical Gardens, the upgrades to the Gamaay Dreaming Track and the Waymburr Story Project. There’s a range of those local projects that will help people when they go to that part of the country to be able to learn the stories, understand the stories from both an indigenous perspective and from an European perspective.
I think that’s one of the things people love coming from Australia to do; to understand our stories.
We’ve got great stories and some of them are hard, some of them are magnificent, but we’ve got to tell them all.
We’re proceeding cautiously here. Warren and I had a good discussion about this, as well as with some locals. There is nothing immediately proceeding there, protecting those conservation values is incredibly important, but also providing the opportunity for people to experience these incredible areas.
I mean, the two have to be done together.
I know there are a lot of different views here in the community about what needs to be done there, so we’ll keep listening.
Well coal creates lots and lots and lots of jobs.
No I don’t, because we’re meeting our commitments, we’ve set our commitments. We met Kyoto 1, we will comfortably smash Kyoto 2 and I believe we will meet 2030 our targets there which we have set. I’ve reassured Pacific leaders about that just last week as well.
We have plans to achieve it, we will achieve it.
The thing about Australia and our commitments on emissions reductions is we actually make them and achieve them. You know, I don’t go around talking about them every day, we just go around doing them every day and make sure we achieve them.
So we’ve got those programs in place, we will continue and we share the concerns about the impacts of climate change, not just about addressing its causes but also addressing its impacts her right around our region in particular, where those impacts can be more severe. But also in supporting scientific research that we have up here into the Reef. I mean, the Reef is both one of our most amazing environmental assets and it’s a livelihood for a large number of Australians, particularly living up here in Queensland and managing and balancing those interests is important.
But I believe everybody’s job is important, whether it’s working in the mining sector, whether it’s working in the environmental sector, whether it’s working in hospitals, whether it’s working in small business.
All of their jobs are important and I want to keep them in all of their jobs.
Well I’d always like more. What I want though is the best people to continue to take on the task that we have set ourselves.
Over the last five and a half years we have created over a million jobs as a Government and we’ve had record growth in youth jobs. I mean here alone, in Leichhardt in this part of Australia, we have seen the youth unemployment rate fall from 28 per cent to 15.6 per cent since the last election.
Now that’s great news, that’s great news for parents who are worried about their kids getting jobs, it’s great news for people coming out of school.
The strength of our economy here supported - not just I should say by the tourism industry and hospitality industry which has always been key to this part of Australia - but the growing and burgeoning health sector, human services sector. This is why we have been investing in James Cook University. I mean this is a tropical capital, not just for Australia but for the region.
I’d like to have more.
Well we have our candidates set as we go in and we’ve got a strong female representation and there are more seats to fill between now and the next election. You know, we've got six women in my Cabinet, that’s the highest number under our Government and they are all very capable women and doing a fantastic job.
But you know what’s important for women? That the gender pay gap has actually fallen to its lowest level on record. That the female workforce participation is at its highest level in record. That we’ve been addressing the cost of childcare, that we’re investing $350 million already in addressing domestic violence as we move forward to our fourth action plan to do just that.
Keeping women safe, keeping women having economic choices and opportunities.
I want more women to have more choices in life. Many are trying to create those choices themselves and can feel frustrated. I want to be able to break through that barrier so they can live the life that they choose to live.
Yeah Jeff’s always good for some advice.
I like the blend of experience. Take Warren. I mean, Warren has been so central, Warren Entsch, in the development of Cairns to what it is today and North Queensland.
I mean over his time – and I’m not just talking about big road projects and things like this – he told me yesterday, over $4 billion worth of investment he’s been able to shepherd into this part of the country.
He is both a champion for north Queensland and a great mentor to many of my colleagues, particularly those new ones who are coming in. Like Senator Amanda Stoker, she’s our most recent member coming in for Queensland, taking up from where George Brandis went out. So, a bloke out and a highly talented woman coming in.
You’ve got someone like Amanda, full of passion and full of vision for the future, you’ve got people like Warren who have got experience and the burning passion still and a plan for north Queensland.
That’s why I just back Warren in, because he knows what to do here, because he’s so connected.
Well I offered her one when I became Prime Minister and she decided she didn’t want to proceed with it at that time, so I respect her decision. I respect her choice, she’ll make her choices and I’ll respect those choices. She’s said she’s intending to run and she’s pre-selected and she’s running out there now, that’s what she’s said on the record.
That’s just politics, I mean the Murray-Darling Basin Plan is a very serious and sensitive issue. It’s been a bipartisan initiative for many, many years. David Littleproud – as your listeners may have heard being interviewed on AM just before this program, was working closely with Tony Burke.
I mean the scientific evidence and research that is currently forming the Murray-Darling Basin Plan, was actually done under Labor.
Now I’m not criticizing that work, we were using that work that they did and we’ve worked in a cooperative and bipartisan way.
Now an election comes up and Bill Shorten wants to take advantage. I just think that’s the wrong way to approach it. We will be taking advice from the experts and we’ll continue to do that.
The Minister will have more to say about that today.
But on top of that, as you can see, the meetings have taken place between the environmental license-holders and the water-managers. The New South Wales Government are the ones who manage the water flows in that part of the country and we’ll work closely to support them as well. But it’s a very serious issue and I know it’s very distressing.
No I’m not at all, I’d like to be informed by the work that we will do. But I’m not going to engage in those sort of theatrics from Bill Shorten. I mean you just can’t trust him with this stuff, he always flicks the switch to the politics on this.
We’ve had such good bipartisanship on this and he just wants to turn it over for political purposes and I find that very disappointing.
You’re right we will have a Budget, we’ll hand down a Budget on the 2nd of April. It will be the first surplus Budget this country has seen in 12 years. This will be very important for the country and we’ve been pulling this Budget back now over the last five years.
Well it doesn’t need to be restored because it hasn’t been cut, it’s funding is not going backwards it’s actually being maintained. But I particularly want to commend the work the regional ABC does. I mean from my Liberal and National parliamentary colleagues who represent regional electorates, I know that they greatly value the work that the ABC does in regional parts of the country.
It’s great to have a local regional host here in Cairns, that’s fantastic as well.
I think the services it provides here in regional areas is outstanding.
No there hasn’t.
There’s been no reduction in funding. I mean we asked the ABC to actually do the same thing that every single Department and agency has to do in terms of an efficiency dividend, which they weren’t required to do for years and years and years. So that’s what impacts on the forward estimates, but the ABC gets a good budget, it gets a strong budget and it does a good job with that budget.
But you know if I have to choose between financing and supporting lung cancer drugs and some other opportunities, guess what I’m going to choose? $60 million for the hospital in Cairns.
Sure.
Well it’s not legislation, it’s part of code. What I’m saying is, I used to be the Immigration Minister, you know, it’s my signature on many Australians’ citizenships today. I had someone who bumped into me at Kakadu the other day actually, they mentioned that to me, they wanted to say g’day.
I just want the ceremony to be treated with respect.
I’ve been to many, many of these ceremonies around the country and the vast majority of new Australians who become Australians on the day, do just that. But just dress appropriately, is my point. Don’t come looking like you just got out of bed, that’s not showing respect.
Citizenship is the most important gift a country can give anyone. Now I wouldn’t turn up to my kids’ graduation in thongs and boardies, I wouldn’t do that. I’d certainly be wearing that at the party afterwards or at the barbeque or down at the beach, of course I’d do that.
But this is an important institution.
Citizenship should be respected and it’s about respect for your fellow citizens who are becoming citizens on that day, as well as respect for the institution itself. So look, it’s a commonsense rule, I think there should be a standard and I think people want standards for things like that.
No worries.
Thanks a lot, I look forward to it.
After the Budget.
That’s not too bad?
Okay and well done to the Taipans last night, cheers.
No I don’t provide any commentary on that. We stay in contact.
Well, I wasn't considering the option that he was and that's never been the subject of our conversations.
Look, I absolutely, like I think all Australians, respect the enormous contribution that Ben Roberts-Smith has made to his country and as I do for all Australians servicemen and women and where there are formal processes that are underway, I'll respect those processes. I'm sure all Australians will.
What all of my team are talking about and as we have been all this week and as I will continue to from this day all the way to the next election, and that is a strong economy is what guarantees the essentials that Australians rely on. And we have the runs on the board and we have the - I believe - the trust and confidence of the Australian people to be the ones who are better able to manage that economy into the future. That's what guarantees Medicare, that’s what guarantees things like MS research.
You can only do that if you're running a strong economy and you can only do that if you can manage a Budget.
Now, we know how to manage money in the Liberal and National Parties, we have demonstrated that. You’ve asked the question, now let me answer it. What I'm saying is, is that we're putting down a Budget next year.
That's what we're focused on.
That will be the first surplus Budget that we have seen in 12 years and that's what pays for things like MS research. That's what pays for things like life-saving affordable medicines for Australians. So that's what we're focusing on.
That's what we're doing.
That's what we're delivering and that's what I'll be taking to the next election. The next election will be about who can run that strong economy to deliver the essential services that Australians rely on and it's a choice - it's a choice the Australian people will be able to make and they can either choose Bill Shorten who wants higher taxes or they can choose me and the Liberal Party and the National Party which will keep taxes down and grow that economy can which gives then the essential services they rely on.
That really is a matter for the Parliament and I have sought to deal with this in a bipartisan way. I have put forward two proposals to seek to deal with this in a bipartisan way and I'm disappointed that the Labor Party has sought to politicise this issue and play political football with it. I remain of the view I would like to see this matter addressed in the same terms I set out some months ago.
Well that's different to what we proposed to them and we heard nothing from them for over a month until one of them, the Shadow Attorney-General, decided to go and do an ABC radio interview. I don't consider the way they’ve handled that in the spirit of, I thought, the bipartisan approach that I had offered. So I found that disappointing.
Our proposals are very clear and we would seek support for those proposals that we put forward.
Watch this space as he would say. Thank you.
G’day Sabra.
Well Chris is absolutely right, it is about enabling farmers and entire communities to drought proof for the future by supporting them to invest in on-farm water infrastructure and other important infrastructure. And but I’ve got to say, dog fences and pests and weeds and things like that are also incredibly important for farmers to manage drought. I saw that firsthand up in Quilpie.
Well they are. I mean, dog fencing for example also stops the movement of things like kangaroos onto pasture property which can actually gobble up basically all the feed that potentially it’s grown. So all of these things are important, and that’s what’s been relayed back to me and I think Chris is spot on.
So what we’re doing is setting up what is basically the drought future fund and it has a capital base of $3.
9 billion rising to $5 billion, and out of the earning of that fund we’re investing $100 million back into drought proofing water-based infrastructure around the country. And today I’ll also be announcing measures for on-farm small grant infrastructure projects on farms which can support that. We’ll also be going to announcing more support to go through the charitable sector so we can get the immediate relief funds to rural communities, not just farmers, a lot more quickly.
So it’s a comprehensive response.
Well exactly, and this is why there are two measures there. The first one is one you’d be familiar with which is the Drought Communities Program and a million dollars going into local shires and drought affected areas…
No, the $5 billion fund is a capital fund that is putting away money for a non-rainy day and to draw down on the earnings, $100 million a year, to invest in longer-term resilience projects. But what I am saying is the drought communities program is putting $1 million into every single shire in a drought affected area and we’re going to be expanding that today. What that is doing is putting money into the towns because councils are often the biggest economic generators in those towns and that’s putting more money in the communities and we’re going to be announcing things today which is supporting charities through the voucher programs and things like that which is keeping the money in the towns and the spending in the towns.
On top of that we’ve already, as you know, been acting on rural health counselors, we’ll have a bit more to say on that today.
And farmers are also telling us in rural communities that they need better access to information. Now we have the drought buses that have been going around which has been doing that, but there are some great initiatives which have been suggested to us around farm hubs. So there’s a… this is a comprehensive response which is about relief, it’s about recovery and it’s about long-term resilience.
That’s why I think in your earlier report, Chris had it bang on and that’s what we’ve been hearing and that’s what we’re announcing.
Yeah the $3.9 billion that is there will be transferred by legislation into the new Future Drought Fund and that will enable to earn at a higher level and it’ll be based on what is done with the Medical Research Fund, the MRF, which has been ensuring we build up a capital…
No no no, the legislation… that won’t be for that purpose because as I announced when we got rid of the Medicare Levy increase that we were able to fully fund the National Disability Insurance Scheme out of the Budget and I made that announcement back prior to the Budget. So this fund can now be fully dedicated to supporting the future resilience of Australia and Australian rural communities against drought. So this is putting the resources to the applied use here and it’ll be able to earn a higher rate of return because of the way we’re setting it up than it currently is now, which enables us to invest those earnings in drought proofing.
Well we’re going to have today the Bureau of Meteorology providing their picture to the Drought Summit and that’ll be important, and one of the things Major General Steven Day…
Well I’m trying to answer the question, Sabra, if you’d let me just sort of answer the question that’d be great. What I’m saying is the Bureau of Meteorology is providing that information on future weather events we’re expecting over the summer. Major General Stephen Day has pulled together what he calls the ‘common operating picture’.
One of the problems we’ve got is that states, territories, charities, ourselves, others involved in drought support are all working off different information.
And they’ll be able to work off one, common map which says where the financial hardship is, where the most intense weather problems are, where the issues are in terms of economic performance and the banks will be helping us to achieve that. So we’ve got to work off one set of plans, and that’s what we’re also announcing today and we’ll be running through that. Weather, and the forecasts on the weather, whether it’s El Nino or anything else, that’s part of the picture we’re putting together.
We’ll meet all the targets that we’ve set for ourselves and that’s exactly what we’re doing and that’s our record. I mean we’ve hit Kyoto One and…
Well I point to the evidence. Kyoto One, totally beat. Kyoto Two, we will totally beat and when you go out to 2030, then all the information before us and particularly the increased investment in renewables which is happening as a result of common sense and technology.
What has been underestimated has been the likely and planned investment in renewable technology, particularly for energy, over the next ten years which is going to significantly to assist us in meeting those targets.
But also it’s the change in demand management. I was at an ice cream wholesaler just this week down here in Canberra and the energy management and demand management practices he’s put in place in his own business is one of the key reasons, whether it’s in the business community or whether it’s in the household sector, people have changed their behaviors. And so this is what is making all of these things far more achievable and so you know, you don’t… where we need to put money is in, say in the energy sector, is making sure we’ve got reliable power.
But it’s also making sure that the interventions we’re making, so the big energy companies can’t be ripping off customers.
I mean renewables are standing on their own two feet. I think that’s fantastic.
Which was reversed, Sabra, it’d be fair for you to point out. And they made very clear…
Well I know that’s the commentary coming out of the media bubble here down in Canberra and out of the Labor Party, Sabra.
Well Sabra, you know what? You know what people are interested in? They’re interested in lower electricity prices, they’re interested in addressing the drought. I mean, this week we also had the National Apology to victims of child sexual abuse, where we announced measures to ensure that their stories will not be forgotten and that was the other real thing that happened in Canberra this week. The other real thing that happened in Canberra this week and last week is unemployment came down to 5 per cent.
We passed the Trans Pacific Partnership deal, we passed laws to reduce small business tax down to 25 per cent.
These are the things, Sabra, that are impacting on people’s daily lives and today, we’re talking about providing relief, recovery and resilience for farmers and rural communities affected by the drought. Now people can talk about process issues in Canberra all they like, but what I’m doing is just getting stuff done.
Thanks Sabra, great to be here. Cheers.
Well I don’t agree with that, John. But one of the keys things that he’s been doing is trying to get what in the military they refer to a common operating picture. What does that mean? It means we’ve got to get everyone on the same page about where the need is and that is what we’ve been doing over the last eight weeks.
You know, working with the Bureau of Meteorology, working with the farming communities, working with the banks, working with the charities, so we can better coordinate where all the support and assistance goes.
Oh gosh. In the last eight weeks, it’d be countless. I mean, he sends me a text every day.
He’s been in South Australia, Queensland, New South Wales, down in Victoria.
He’s even been over in places like the west and where there is no drought but how they can be better supporting the efforts on the east coast. So, mate, he’s been everywhere. Rural towns, major cities talking to the ag ministers.
He’s been very, very active.
Well there have been… this is coming out of the Future Fund so we are putting aside $3.9 billion in capital and that will go into the Future Drought Fund, and that will earn, as these funds do, and that will grow to $5 billion. And that is also after we’ve been taking some of the earnings, about $100 million a year, and investing that in longer drought resilience projects across the country which can include everything from stuff happening on farm or more broadly.
So that is putting money away for a non-rainy day and ensuring that we are addressing the longer-term resilience because the three things we have to do with the drought is: A; get the relief to the people who need it now and that’s why we’ve been doing that with additional financial assistance and supporting people with mental health counsellors and financial counsellors and ensuring we are supporting the charities and coordinating their efforts now.
But then there’s the recovery, getting back on our feet. That’s where we’ve got support for investing in silage infrastructure and things like that. And longer-term, you need that bigger drought proofing and making sure we have the resources in the future to support our drought efforts over a longer-term.
No.
Yeah.
That’s the plan and the way you do it is by taking the big stick to electricity companies and having the legislation and the powers to… . I mean, our electricity… there are big companies, it’s heavily regulated, too often that regulations have worked in favour of the big companies not the customers so we are going to even up that score. A bit like a number of years ago when I was the Treasurer and we changed the competition laws to even the rules up for small business, which I know you were a keen advocate of at the time.
So it’s the same sort of thing but we’ve got to put more power back in the hands of the customers and less in the hands of the big energy companies. But I was surprised, I’ve got to say John, and disappointed, the Labor Party aren’t going to back us on this legislation.
I’ve got no idea. They want to… they’re not going to take a big stick to the energy companies but they’re going to take a big stick to people’s home prices with abolishing negative gearing as we know it and increasing capital gains tax by 50 per cent. So, they’ve got a big stick but it’s going to go and whack people’s home values.
Well that’s what I’m working to stop but also to ensure that we can keep doing the things that we know are, you know, driving the economy forward. I mean, last week unemployment came down to 5 per cent which is great news for Australian job seekers and good on for Australian businesses for putting people on.
Well I think they all have a role to play because former prime ministers have things to contribute. And particularly internationally because of the relationships that they’ve formed. I mean, just this last week Julia Gillard was down in Canberra for the National Apology for the victims of child sexual abuse in institutions.
Now she initiated the Royal Commission and I thought she did a great job this week…
… she was supporting victims and survivors. And so she can do a great job there, others can do a great job… I mean I had Tony, he’s still in the Parliament, but Tony’s out there working with me in indigenous communities looking at how we can get more indigenous kids in school. And of course, eight weeks ago, many, many weeks ago, we’d arranged with the Indonesian president, President Widodo, he’s got this big conference on oceans, and Malcolm was always going to go to that previously.
I can’t go and the Indonesian president, with whom we have a very important relationship, very warmly received the offer that he might attend.
So I know that upset a few people but it’s got nothing to do with Wentworth, it’s just got to do with putting people where they’ve got the skills to go and do a job.
I can. I can, John, and I get that. But, you know, we’ve got to move on.
There’s just too many personalities in politics.
People like politicians, they don’t like politicians, they don’t like this one or that one, and that’s what it’s about. What it’s about is what we are coming together today to do and that is to make sure we are backing in farmers and rural and regional communities and particularly the towns. I mean you know this, you know this better than anyone, when the drought hits it’s not just the farmers who cop it, but it’s the towns.
So we are putting a million bucks into every single shire in a drought affected area so they can bring forward projects, they can do road works, they can fix up the toilet block at the local pool or they can do some records management.
And that’s putting money into the towns for local contractors, for local staff and that keeps the town churning. We are going to expand that program today and reach more shires because sadly in places like South Australia and Victoria the drought is moving into those parts and it’s getting dryer. So we are keeping on top of that and we are making sure we are delivering the support.
Well there’s a range of them. That one is actually run by Bridget McKenzie and she’s the Minister for Rural and Regional Services. She is the minister responsible for that fund.
On water infrastructure projects, that’s the Minister for Agriculture, David Littleproud.
And on the road projects, that’s Minister Michael McCormack, the Deputy Prime Minister.
Well so was I, John.
I was the one who abolished it so actions speaker louder than words. I mean, I think since the 2014/15 Budget it hadn’t been revisited really. It’d been there and then when I became Prime Minister I said I think we should get rid of that, and we did.
We can always do better. But one of the things we do have in this country, whether it’s affordable medicines under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, which really does support senior Australians. I announced the Royal Commission into residential aged care a few weeks back to make sure we build a culture of respect for senior Australians.
That’s really important to ensure they get the care they need.
We’ve increased the support for in-home aged care places by about 20,000 places in the last twelve months. So we are doing all that, but I tell you what we are not going to do, John. We’re not going to take away their dividend imputation credits they get from their investments in Australian shares.
Now the Labor Party, that’s their policy. It’s going to whack Australians, particularly senior Australians to the tune of just under $5 billion a year. So as much as what we are putting into this future fund on drought…
… they are going to whack that out of the pockets of retirees all around the country. And for what purpose? Just to splurge money around.
There was a miscommunication between… with the Senate and they stuffed it up and they shouldn’t have and I was pretty angry about it and they fixed it.
No they shouldn’t and, you know, they shouldn’t. And so I think they came pretty clean on that and it was a fair cop. I wouldn’t have voted for that and I said the next day and I know the Leader of the Government in the Senate was very apologetic about how that had happened.
But you know what happened down here John? I mean, you know this.
It’s the Canberra bubble. You know what happened in the Senate? It turns into a bit of a high school debating society. They put all these motions up, day after day after day after day.
There not Bills, they’re not things that actually pass laws or change anything.
It’s just a lot of people grandstanding in Canberra, pontificating, and what I’m about is getting more support for farmers, more support for rural communities, more support in residential aged care and in-home aged care places, getting unemployment down to five per cent, passing laws to reduce taxes for small and family businesses, which we did last week down to 25 per cent. The new big trade deal, the Trans Pacific Partnership 11; I mean, that is going to enable all of us, including our farmers to reach half a billion customers. We’ve passed that through the Parliament.
So that’s real stuff.
The other fluff and bubble that goes on in Canberra, frankly I think most Australians just turn off to.
No, not at all John. Not at all. I think all Australians should be treated with dignity and respect and they shouldn’t be discriminated against for who they are.
Well I’ve got no idea. People do stupid things from time to time.
Well my faith teaches me to love everyone, John.
Yes, I do. Sometimes, mate, as you know, it can be a bit hard to like all the time. I suspect it’s a bit hard for them to like me all the time too, but that’s just life.
But I think we’ve got to treat everyone, each other, with dignity and respect and one of the things that I said when I became Prime Minister is yeah I want to keep Australia strong, our economy strong, so we can afford all the things that matter, you know the pension, health care, schools.
We’ve got to keep Australians safe, on our boarders but also in our schools. This week we had the National Apology to the victims of child sexual abuse in institutions and I was there with hundreds and hundreds of people earlier this week and it made it just… it just breaks your heart what happened to them.
I’ve never met… I’ve never been in a room, John...
I could actually feel my body just quivering at the level of hurt that was in that room.
It was quite overwhelming. So we’ve got to keep our kids safe because we didn’t keep those kids safe.
It’s our national shame and I thought the Apology was a great way to acknowledge it, and a number of people have said to me, look thank you. They want to see the action and we are following through on the action but just the acknowledgement of it. Because for so long their tears were never seen.
Yeah there’s always plenty of work. But I’m getting home later tonight but I’ll be out at Invictus for the closing ceremony and how good has that been?
I think so. Australians and Sydney-siders have got out, not just supporting our own athletes, but they’ve supported the courage and the victory whether they came first second or at the tail-end of the field, everyone is getting cheered on because they’re all champions and they’ve all demonstrated something that’s just a unique testament to the human spirit.
They are. So I’m looking forward with them. Jen and the girls went out and saw a lot of the events this week while I’ve been down here in Canberra and they were telling me just how good it was and how encouraged all the athletes were and how they all cheered.
It’s just awesome.
Well it is, John. But your family… my family has always been the mainstay for me and they believe in what I’m doing and whatever we do, we always do as a family.
Thanks, John. All the best, see you soon.
Hey Fitzy, hey Wippa.
I’ve had the heavy roller out last night, up and back.
It’s looking good mate.
Not one that I’ve found, but the door tends to be open when I get home.
All hours of the night.
That’s all good, but maybe the dog has got the key, I dunno.
I don’t know where it is. We’ll have to try and find it together.
Yeah it’s breezy.
It’s coming in from the Randwick end.
Neither.
Yeah, I’m more for effort. More effort than skill.
Oh I mean if I had to put it between the posts, it’d be alright, yeah.
A little. I’ve been watching those images of Bob Hawke getting one in the nut.
And of course John’s famous ball. But you know, I’ll see how I go, it should be a great day.
It’s a great cause, it’s a really great cause.
Well mate I’ve ‘umed and ahed’ over it but I’m going to go with Wippa and all because Wippa’s mum is coming.
He played the big card, bringing mum in and you know, how do you say no to Wippa’s mum?
I want to play against Karl, I want to play against Karl.
Yep.
No, we’re really happy to have you here and Buddy the dog, he will be on the field, I see the rules allow him to be one of my fielders.
If he gets the ball, you’re not going to catch him.
Yeah he’s our little dog.
Buddy will be there, little black dog, he’ll be running around. He loves getting the ball and taking off.
Oh, and congratulations, can I say, to Ryan Carter, a great bloke who has founded this Batting For Change.
I was talking to the Indian President about it yesterday when he was out, he’s going to the t20 and I said: “Well, we’ve got a bit of a match going on over at our place”.
He decided to stay with the t20. Anyway, it should be a great day and well done guys.
Okay, cheers.
Great to be here.
We’ll find out whether it is or not in a sec I suspect.
Well it’s a great job. I love the job. The best thing about this job is it doesn’t matter where you go in the country everybody is happy to have a chat with you.
That is actually the best part of the job.
It doesn’t matter where I am; I was up at Bathurst on the weekend and we’re chatting to families who are there and that event was amazing. I got to do a hot lap with Mark Skaife and my little girl Lilly came with me for the day. I didn’t tell her she was going to be on national television and she’s sitting there in the back of the hot lap and we’re coming down off the mountain and it was literally like being on the Wild Mouse.
And we were rolling around and her pig tails were up in the air and she was having a great time.
So look, the serious part of the job is a great privilege and you can make a difference everyday – how good is that?
I came pretty late to the party, I’ve got to say. I was there right at the end. But look, when people ask you to step up, you do, and that’s what I’ve done and we are getting on with it.
It was messy. It was a really messy week. But the important thing is that you’ve got to move quickly to get things on track again and we’ve done that.
I mean today we are announcing that we are cutting taxes for small business again.
We are bringing forward the small business tax rate down to 25 per cent. So every hairdresser in the country, every tradie who’s out there working this morning running their own business, you’re going to pay 25 per cent under us.
Sure.
Molly’s pretty switched on.
Well he did apologise for it.
Yeah he did apologise for it. As I said at the time, they weren’t painting it on, it’s all sort of passed now. It became a bit of a kerfuffle up there in Sydney, but you know, it’s all passed now.
You know, the Opera House is still standing.
Well state governments run the state government schools…
No no. The state government runs them but we’ve put $29 billion extra into our public schools and into our independent schools and into our Catholic schools. You know, everybody should have a choice about what they do.
I went to public schools all of my life, so did my wife, and we took a decision to send our kids to a Christian school because that’s how we are bringing our kids up and when parents want to do that they should have that choice.
But state schools, they are the heart of the education system for the overwhelming majority of families. About 30 per cent of kids actually go to non-state schools and we want all kids to have the best education regardless of what school they go to and our funding package backs that up.
No look my kids…
Well I do support state government schools but you know what, if I want to send my kids to a Christian school, why shouldn’t I be able to do that?
Well it can. There are some schools which are non-state schools that don’t cost much and there are others that cost more and parents make their own choices. But all parents should have their choices and as I said, I went to state government schools…
I did. I enjoyed my time at state government schools and I went to great schools. And there are great schools where my electorate is in Sydney and my kids were going to those schools and then we made a decision to send them to a Christian school.
Look, you know what I really don’t like about the education debate? It’s not an us and them thing.
No it’s not. It’s not an us and them.
No. I mean, why do we have to set parents against each other? Why do we do that?
Why do we have to put kids who go to one school against kids who go to another school? How about parents just make their own decisions be supported in their choices and let them all have a great education?
That’s not my view.
No they haven’t. We are increasing the amount of funding going into public schools by around $20 billion over the next five years and we are increasing the amount that’s going into independent schools and into Catholic schools. We are spending more and more money on education but what I want to see is I want to see us get good results for that money.
I mean you can’t just splash money around and think that’s the answer.
We are investing more in schools, I mean, the Commonwealth Government has increased our funding to public schools five times faster than state governments have. So we are in there and we are backing them in, but you know what, I don’t think…
Of course they are. The reason I’ve decided to send my kids, because you guys have raised it, to an independent school is because I want them to go to a Christian school. I think the education quality they were getting in the public school was as good; I just wanted them to go to a Christian school.
Well it also sounds untrue.
Well what happens is under current law, which was introduced under the Labor Government, by the way, Tanya Plibersek, they introduced the law which allows religious schools to exercise their judgement about who can work in schools and all the rest. But what the proposal is to us is that that should be refined to make it better to ensure that the interest of the child is put at the centre of any decisions. The report also finds that there has been no practice where these schools have been doing this either.
So all I said yesterday was what is being talked about is currently the law and it was actually a law introduced by the Labor Party when they were in Government.
Now what has been proposed to us by Philip Ruddock is we should be tightening that law to ensure that the interest of the child is put at the centre of the consideration and I think religious schools will support that strongly. So you know, once again, people go out there and say I’ve said something that I haven’t said at all.
I don’t think people should have a right to discriminate against people on the basis of their race, on the basis of their gender, or on the basis of their religion, or any of these things…
… or their sexuality. I genuinely believe that and protecting people’s faith is as important as protecting their discrimination on their race. So there’s been a report on that, we are going to look at that carefully.
But I want to stress, what we are looking to do, what’s been proposed to us, is to ensure that the children at the centre of these issues are at the centre of consideration.
And the law that we currently have, which the Labor Party brought in actually doesn’t do that.
What I’m really comfortable about is that I come in here with you guys and I can hear from these young children who clearly spend a lot of time… . I’m encouraged by the state school system here in Victoria which shows such an intense level of understanding of modern politics.
Look, we are righting the ship really quickly, we are getting on with it, we are backing small businesses. It’s been fun to come in here with you guys to talk about important issues. Schools are an important issue, discrimination is an important issue, and making sure we create jobs and young people… you know last year 100,000 jobs created for young people: the strongest ever year of growth for youth employment in Australia’s economic history.
You get a young kid into a job, it changes their life forever.
We are nowhere near it.
G’day Sabra.
Well that will always be up to the small and medium sized businesses but what we found last time when we provided business tax relief is that small businesses did provide support for wages in some cases. In other cases, they invested more in their businesses. Because small and medium sized businesses, that’s what they do.
They don’t just walk away and put their money in their pocket.
They invest back in their businesses and in their people. This is a very big boost to businesses that employ more than half the Australian workforce and last time they reacted very well with strong investment and strong support for their employees, boosting employment and creating new opportunities in local towns right across the country to our big cities.
Well I know that if small businesses and medium sized businesses are paying less tax to the Government, then they are more able to provide better wages to their employees. And I know small and medium sized businesses, they put their employees at the center of their business because they know they are the key to the success of their business. So every business will have that opportunity and will have that decision.
But I do know one thing – if they have to pay more tax to the Government, which is what Labor will have them do, then they will have less flexibility to pay their staff more.
Well they’ll have the opportunity, and they’ll have it fairly soon. I intend to bring forward this legislation next week into the House of Representatives. It’s important that I think small and medium sized businesses employing more than half of Australians around the country should have the opportunity to have that legislated as soon as possible.
Under the Liberal Party, under the National Party, small and medium sized businesses’ taxes will fall to 25 per cent.
Under the Labor Party, they are currently even going to reverse the legislated tax cuts to 25 per cent currently scheduled to 2026-27. Now we are going to bring that forward by five years. Every business less than $50 million in turnover will have a lower rate of tax in the next term of Parliament down to 25 per cent.
Under the Labor Party, it’ll be higher.
It’s a pretty clear contrast.
Labor is going to tax Australians more. They are going to tax Australians more than $250 billion more over the next ten years. Labor’s plan, five point plan, is tax, tax, tax, tax and tax.
Every time you hear Bill Shorten talking, he is increasing your taxes.
And what we’ve done is keep taxes under control, we’ve kept spending under control, we’re bringing the Budget back into balance, we’ve preserved our Triple A credit rating, more than a million jobs have been created. In the last twelve months, more than 100,000 jobs for young people have been created, the strongest youth jobs growth we’ve seen on economic record in Australia. So our plan of keeping taxes and spending under control, spending wisely in infrastructure and services, that’s the guarantee that people can rely on in services.
When you manage a Budget and manage an economy, you can actually deliver those services that Labor promises, but we can guarantee we can pay for.
You can’t trust Labor to be able to meet their promises because they can’t run a strong economy and if you put taxes up, you slow the economy down. Our promises, our commitments, can be guaranteed on essential services because we run a strong economy, we run a strong Budget. That’s the guarantee that Australians need and I think demand.
It’s no good talking about it, you’ve got to deliver it, and that’s what our Government has been doing.
A strong economy and a strong Budget is the guarantee of essential services and that’s what we can offer.
Well already we’ve seen the permanent intake fall to just over 160,000 and that’s basically the same level it was when the Howard Government left office back in 2007.
Well we’ve got a cap, we don’t have a target. We changed that a while ago and what this does is largely respond to demand. What we want to do is make sure particularly that the temporary migration program, now that has been what is driving population growth.
More than 40 per cent of population growth in Australia has been as a result of temporary migration.
Just under 40 per cent has basically been natural increase, and only around 20 per cent of it has been permanent migration. So managing temporary migration is the key to managing population growth, and that’s actually where you’ve got the most levers. That’s why we’ve been talking about using the migration program to back in state and territory plans where they want to see population spread in a different way than it is now, to get people to the places they want them and to ensure that where congestion is a big issue like in Sydney and in Melbourne or I would say even the Central Coast of NSW where I was yesterday, that we can alleviate that pressure.
Well you must have misunderstood me, Sabra. What I’m saying it’s a bit like average rainfall is about as useful as the statistic of average population growth. What I’m talking about is managing where the population goes, where the temporary migration goes.
That means you can maintain a healthy migration program, but what you’re doing is making sure it’s getting to the places that need it, just like you need rainfall where you need it.
There’s no pint talking about national averages, you’ve got to talk about what’s the population growth in Melbourne? What’s the population growth in Adelaide, or in Western Australia? In both of those states, they’re places where they want more people. I was down in Tasmania just last weekend, they have a plan to lift the population of that state and we want our migration program to support it. But you’ve got to have a policy for Sydney, you’ve got to have a policy for Melbourne, for south east Queensland, for Cairns, for Townsville, and that’s what our population policies are about.
I mean just to talk about figures at a headline level, I think it’d very superficial and it’d be very misleading and I don’t think that’s the way you actually solve congestion problems in cities where you need to do that or solving the need for more population in others areas where those cities, those towns, those regions are urgently looking for it.
Well we’re looking at that report and it’s a global report, it’s not a report to Australia I should stress. We take all of those reports seriously, we’re part of that process but we’ve got our commitments and we’re meeting our commitments and we’ll continue to do that. We’re very confident about our ability to meet those.
Why? Because we’ve met the targets we’ve already set for ourselves, and we will continue to be able to do that.
I believe that is what we’ll meet, because not only the policy…
Well, this is the advice that we’re working through as a Government. But what it’s based on also is we’ve crossed a threshold point, Sabra. No longer in order to see large investment in renewable technologies do you need these heavy subsidies, because it’s now making economic sense all on its own.
We have been through a period in the past where those subsidies have been very important to the build-up of the renewable energy sector.
But when a sector can stand on its two feet and when you look out over the next decade and you see the investment that is coming in renewables, not because governments are throwing money at it but because it just makes good economic financial sense, then that’s how you start to meet these arrangements. Now also on the demand management side we’ve seen major improvements happening there. We’ve still got the small scale RET and the large scale RET programs, they remain in place.
And look, everybody can say what they think is going to happen by 2030, Sabra.
I believe, our Government believes we’re going to meet those targets comfortably and in 2030 we can all meet up again and we can sit down and do the interview again, Sabra, but you know we can all have our crystal ball.
Well that’s for the Australian people to judge on us both, isn’t it?
In the same way that all Australians, regardless of their gender or their race in Australia, they can go about their lives each day with important protections that protect them from discrimination. What the report, which is yet to go fully through a Cabinet process yet, what the report is saying well those sort of same protections and those sort of freedoms, people of different of faiths, of which there are millions in Australia, should have that same level of confidence. Now we’re working through that report, I’ve only been in the job Sabra as you know for seven weeks or so.
This was a report that had been received by the previous Prime Minister and it was held by the Attorney as well.
It hadn’t gone to Cabinet, Cabinet Ministers hadn’t seen it at that time. I’ve been working through that, I’ve got a timetable to deal with this by the end of the year, but frankly, my priority immediately was to deal particularly with issues around education which we have been dealing with strongly. We have been dealing with the issues around the economy and the measures I’m announcing today for lower taxes for small businesses and medium sized businesses.
I’ve been dealing with issues of the drought, the aged care Royal Commission we announced this week.
We’ve had some important priorities we’ve been dealing with.
Religious freedom is an important priority to me as well as all Australians and we’ll work through that in a methodical process but I want to make something really clear, particularly in terms of the reporting that was yesterday. There is no proposal before the Government to in any way weaken the protections that exist for people of same-sex marriages or for people or children who may be gay or lesbian or the many other descriptions. There is no law that is proposing from that report to change that in any negative way.
In fact, as Phillip Ruddock made clear yesterday, what the proposal was is to actually put in place better guidelines, more clarity to ensure that the child is at the center of the protection of what that law would do.
Now the law that is currently in place was introduced by the Labor Party. Tanya Plibersek sat around the Cabinet table when it was out in place, Bill Shorten was part of the Government that put in place the existing law which reflects the protection that is already there for those schools.
Thanks a lot Sabra.
G’day Jon.
What I always do Jon, I’ll argue the toss with you mate.
Well I don’t think… no one has done that, Jon.
No Jon I’m sorry, no politician to my knowledge or anyone else, the former Prime Minister, me or anyone else, has asked for anyone to be fired.
No no they didn’t say that either John.
No it’s not the evidence. That’s the allegation that a politician has said that. The politician hasn’t said that, the former Chairman is reported to have said those things but he has said himself that that wasn’t coming in terms of what should happen to staff.
I mean, politicians have every right, Jon, to say if they think the journalist got it wrong… you and I disagree all the time and I call you out when I think you’ve got it wrong and you call me out when you think I’ve got it wrong.
I haven’t got a problem with that. I mean, on many occasions in the past I’ve taken issue with what the ABC have done, I’ve raised it through the appropriate channels and on quite a few occasions that ABC have had to apologise.
Yeah that’s the process. That’s the way I’ve always done it.
Yeah of course I am, that’s how it should be. But we are allowed to say when we think they get it wrong and you know the ABC don’t always apologise when they do get it wrong by the way. You know, that’s for them, you’re an independent organisation, that’s how it should be.
You’re not perfect.
Well I’m going to wait for the results of the review to come back Jon. I mean, those sorts of ideas have been floated before but I… look, I will wait to see what the Review says. I think that’s the fair and sensible thing to do.
It’s not about whether I’m tempted or not, it’s about what the evidence is and what the report says. So I’ll do it on an evidence base.
We’ll discuss it with our colleagues, that’s what Cabinets do. We receive a report, we’ll consider the report but no, I don’t come into it with any sort of set view on this Jon. I really don’t.
Well who is suggesting that?
I don’t get into gossip. I mean, I’m not going to get into all that. We make appointments to the board, I expect them to do a job and if they don’t do a job they should go.
I think that’s a pretty cynical observation Jon, that’s your view it’s not mine.
I think people make some pretty subjective assessments of these things and they’re entitled to make them. I mean, people commentating on people appointed to various board or whatever, they’re entitled to their subjective assessments. But that doesn’t mean I have to agree with them.
No, there’s a process for that as you know and I’ll let that process follow and we’ll be making a recommendation later in the day for someone to step up into the position of Executive Chair which would mean that they would then become the Acting Chair until these issues are resolved. That’s the proper process and I’ll be following it.
Well I’m sure there’ll be lots of good nominations made Jon, I hear you’re finishing up next year, maybe you want to throw your hat in the ring.
Yeah there’s lots of names being put up and there’s a process to consider them, Jon, and that’s what we’ll do.
Oh look, those sorts of things would be dealt with through a budget process, not in an interview, and you know, we consider proposals from time to time. But look, that’s something we deal with in budgets and that’s not something I’m looking at right now.
It’s a priority for our Government to deal with the drought, to get electricity prices down, to keep the economy strong, keep Australians safe and to bring Australians and keep them together. They’re my priorities.
Well no, we fund the ABC. I want them to do a good job, I want them to do it in an independent and unbiased way. That’s what taxpayers pay for and that’s what I expect the board to deliver.
Well look Jon I’m just not going to get drawn on it, it’s just not something that I’m focusing much attention on at the moment. I’ve told you what I’m focusing on and frankly, the biggest issue for me at the moment and we’re doing a lot of work on it has been the drought. We’ve got the aged care inquiry which I’m finalising the terms of reference for and looking to appoint some commissioners to that, we’ve got the Royal Commission into the banking and financial industry coming out today, so there’s no shortage of very important issues for us to deal with.
And as interesting as the ABC is.
..
No look, I was looking at the front pages of the Melbourne papers this morning and I think the Herald Sun has got it right. Most people in Melbourne today are more interested in the AFL Grand Final than the ABC. I think The Age pulled the wrong rein there.
Oh look, there’s a little bit more distance to travel on that. We’re doing some more consultation but I want to do it soon but I also want to make sure we get it right. And you know, appointing the commissioners as well is a key part of that.
So we’ve been working fastidiously through that ever since I made that announcement last Sunday week, so I think we’re making a lot of progress and I really want to thank Australians for the way they’ve responded and the feedback they’ve been providing.
Well that sometimes is what happens with Royal Commissions. I think a bit of that is what we’ve seen with the banking and finance Royal Commission, although there has been some new things there and I have no doubt there will be new things that come out of an aged care Royal Commission which deals as you know not only with residential aged care but in-home care places as well as young Australians living in an aged care setting. So look, I think there will be a lot of bruising information.
I know Jon a lot of people have called into your program over a long time raising terrible, terrible stories.
So look, I think this is going to be tough.
We’ll see what the report says today, it’ll come out today, we’ll release it today as I said I would and then we’ll take the next step then I think Jon. But I think Commissioner Hayne has done an outstanding job, I really do. I think he’s got through the work very, very assiduously but also very sensitively and he’s been very focused on making a practical contribution I think out of this and I’m sure he’ll make one and that’ll give us a very good set of recommendations to work with.
No he hasn’t.
No I wouldn’t describe it like that and I don’t think Commissioner Hayne would describe it like that. I don’t think he is giving it a once over quick hit Jon, I think he’s been an outstanding commissioner who has applied what is an amazing intellect to this and an application which I think has given absolute justice to the seriousness of the issues and if he asks for more time, he’ll get it.
Well he took the job on the basis that he would do a great job and he’d follow the terms of reference.
The money will be spent on the schools that we’ve committed. That’s what… we’re growing our state school funding by over six per cent and funding for non-state schools with less than six per cent out to about 2023. We’ve made our commitments to support all schools.
There's more money going into all schools, and we’re both preserving choice, we’re making sure the needs-based formula works right across the board and what we had from the Chaney Review was I think a very clear recommendation which said you had to look at the individual circumstances of parents in non-state schools and that’s exactly what we’re doing.
So look, I think it’s an improved arrangement than the one we had before. It addresses some weaknesses that were there and I think that’s good.
We’ll spend the money. That’s the plan, and we’ll spend the money on kids’ education. I’m not going to get caught up in the usual state politics and the argy bargy of this, I’m just going make sure we spend the money on kids’ schools.
PRIME MINISTER – RECORDING: Well I just don’t know why people have to always bring Australia down and I don’t think engaging in this sort of indulgent self-loathing actually makes our country stronger. I mean, I want to bring Australians together around this day. That’s the date that the ships turned up.
Well every time… I mean there are some people who want to change the date who I think do so out of a real genuine empathy for indigenous Australians and I think they have responded well to my suggestion that we also have an opportunity, not Australia Day, but another day not the same as Australia Day to recognise the contribution of our Indigenous people, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. But there are others, you know, who just go out there and just want to take a sledge on Australia Day all the time and promote themselves and engage in this “Australia is the worst country on earth.” Well that’s just… I don’t buy into it.
I think Australians are just sick of it and I think these guys should pull their heads in.
Well I thought the Byron Bay Mayor was doing a pretty good job of it. I thought Richard Di Natale was doing a pretty good job of it and I think they should pull their heads in. I mean, we can celebrate Australia Day.
We talked about this issue once before Jon.
On the 29th of April every year, what we have down in my community is a meeting of two cultures ceremony. That’s the day that Sir James Cook turned up at Kurnell, and that is a respectful, positive, celebration that we have which brings together Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. We’ve been doing it for years.
It’s quite possible to do that you know.
We don’t have to have a fight about it, you can bring people together. That’s all I’m saying. And everyone wants to go and have a big blue about this.
You don’t have to, we can accommodate everybody.
Jon you’re being very cynical today mate. I mean Tony Abbott has showed a passion for Indigenous children’s education throughout his entire public life. So yeah, I’ve asked Tony to go and help make sure we get good policy there to get Indigenous kids into school.
I mean what’s the problem with that mate? I’ve got an Indigenous Minister in Nigel Scullion who is working on broader indigenous issues, now I’ve got an Education Minister that’s focusing on this.
There is no lack of effort. And if I got someone in my team, whether it is Tony who has a passion and a knowledge of these things, who goes and spends a week of his own time, has for years, up working with teachers aides in Indigenous areas. Well why wouldn’t I ask him to do something?
Of course I do, and I’ll be there with Tony, I’ll be there with Nige. I’ve been there myself in previous portfolios and I’ve learned a lot from doing that. I am the sort of person that likes to roll my sleeves up, get there and understand it firsthand.
And that’s what I’ve always done in all my portfolios, Jon, so absolutely I will and I look forward to doing that.
The Attorney General is currently looking at some alternative ways of addressing these matters and I will keep doing that work.
No I don’t believe so because we’ve had record jobs growth. The reason the welfare spending has come down Jon is because people have got into jobs and we’ve tightened up on the abuse of the system. So we’ve done the right thing by taxpayers, we’ve done the right thing by people who aren’t in work by getting them into work.
The best form of welfare is a job, I’ve always believed that and that’s what our Government has been delivering for five years.
Well I’ve increased funding for homelessness. I made homelessness funding through the National Partnership Agreement on homelessness permanent. It used to be a year to year proposition and I made that permanent as Treasurer in my last Budget and we’re very committed to homelessness.
we’ve set up the National Housing Financial Investment Corporation to provide low-cost finance to affordable housing developments through community housing associations.
We’ve provided tax concessions for investment in affordable housing and social housing projects. So Jon we have done quite a lot on this area and I want to see us continue to do more and work with the states and territories but particularly the sector to ensure that the money that is spent on homelessness meets the mark. But the truth is, the number of unemployed people in Australia since the last election has gone down, not up.
Yeah and I don’t know much about this Jon, so...
No I didn’t, I just...
Oh I think that’s rubbish Jon.
Everyone who goes to the footy sort of, you know, wants to watch the game and you know, have a bit of skin in the game. And look, I’ve been going for Western Australia for a long, long time and I have a great affection for them and I’ve met some of the guys over there. So look, I wish them well but I haven’t got a team in the AFL, I’m not about to get one.
I mean Robert Menzies didn’t have an NRL team.
..
Well we actually were playing rugby league back then.
Well there wasn't an AFL back in Menzies’ time...
And good for him, I go and watch the Sharks every week, so look, every time they’re playing at home as well I’ll be there.
Maybe if it wasn’t Collingwood.
Maybe if it was one of the others, but…
Maybe not the only thing Jon, who knows.
Look forward to it, good on you Jon.
Well that was exciting. That rig was what I would call a big unit, I thought that was very exciting. I also want to thank Gladys Berejiklian for the great work we’ve been doing together as a state and a Commonwealth.
I’ve already made mention in my earlier remarks about the former Prime Ministers and their role in bring us to where we are today and Paul Fletcher the former Minister who did so much great work in this area.
Stuart, it’s great to have you here with us today, a champion of Western Sydney. So why don’t we just go straight to questions?
She is represented today by the Minister. Today is a Commonwealth Government announcement, that’s what we’re doing here today. So I’d have to refer you back to her office.
I’d have to direct you to her office.
I’ve got no idea, I’m not in the NSW Parliament. I don’t stick my nose in other parliaments’ business.
I think today is a very exciting day for Australia. What we’re announcing today is the Commonwealth kicking this project off. You’re on the Commonwealth site, and it’s the Commonwealth Government’s initiative to get this happening.
Over $5 billion invested in making this happen, and it’s great to have Stuart here who has been a champion of this project for a very long time.
Because frankly, people kept kicking it down the road for too long and our Government didn't. People talked a big game on Western Sydney Airport for years and years and years. And our Government stopped talking and started doing and that's what we've been doing for the last five years, is getting to this very day.
We started right off the blocks, we had to resolve the initial issues around who could do it and in what circumstances and we were able to resolve that.
Then we got the Corporation together, and then we got moving and today, we've been able to get to this point within five years of being elected. I think that's a real testimony to our determination as a Government over that period of time to make Western Sydney Airport a reality.
Many of the issues will still require a lot of close community consultation and working together. But you know, it's a huge project and huge projects require you to work through a lot of issues. We're not scared of big projects, we're not scared of investing in the nation's future.
We're absolutely passionate about it.
So we will take on all of those challenges. Others in the past have run away from Western Sydney Airport because it was all just too hard. Our Government has actually been committed to it from to get-go.
We're making it happen.
This is a reality. This is actually now finally happening. I mean, this issue has been around longer than I have been living on the planet.
And you know, it's great to see this happening.
Maybe it took a Gen-Xer to finally get us there. But look, everyone has been involved in getting us to this point in our Government over the last five years. And it's so exciting to now see these dozers moving.
22 million cubic metres of earth is going to be moved around on this site and I think that’s tremendously exciting.
For all who believed, all who had a vision about this, that vision is now a reality here in Western Sydney.
I'm just excited it's happening. I really am. Because as I said in my earlier remarks, I have had an interest in seeing this happen since in early 1990s when I worked in the tourism industry.
I have always known how important it is.
I’ve also known how important it is representing a part of Sydney that I’ve seen an airport there over many, many years become the heart and soul of its economy. I know what can be achieved here for the Western Sydney economy, because I know what it's achieved in my backyard in southern Sydney. This is the biggest game-changer I think for the city of Sydney since, you know, we built the Harbour Bridge.
That’s how big a deal this is.
We'll have more announcements about what we’re doing in all of these areas. We're totally committed to the success of this airport and what is required to make it a success. That is a constant, daily project.
To make it work.
Now we're committed to making it work. We're working with the State Government who is committed to making it work. We're committed to others who are here, the councils and others who are making it work.
Not far from here, if you go down to Liverpool, Western Sydney University has actually built a vertical campus in Liverpool because of this.
The reason they decided to go and invest in Liverpool was because this was happening. That's what I mean by game-changing, city-changing infrastructure investments. It is leading investment right across Western Sydney and the other infrastructure will come.
It will be planned and provided and done in partnership because everyone is committed to making this work.
And there will be people who will complain along the way, and there will be people who will raise concerns and that's fair enough. There will be concerns and there will be complaints to be addressed, but you don't stop. That's how great cities are built, by doing this.
I'm just sticking to my job mate, basically. My job is to ensure that our Government continues to deliver a stronger economy, to guarantee the essentials that Australians rely on, to keep Australians safe, and importantly, to keep Australians together. This project here, I think, is going to tick all three of those boxes.
It will bring people together here in Western Sydney, as Tudgey was saying, and I know that Stuart is passionate about this as well, to be able live, work and play here in Western Sydney.
Not to have to be on that commute into the city. I mean, that's how the city is being reshaped and what the State Government is doing up around in the north-west as well, they’ve got the south-west, all of these corridors for growth, and I know what Alan is working on, particularly down in Melbourne, where there's similar growth corridors where we have to plan for that. In south east Queensland, massive challenges that we have, but our investments in the M1 and north of the Bruce Highway as well, coming out of Brisbane, you know, this is a Government that understands what you need to do to make our cities work better.
You bust congestion. You build the infrastructure. You manage the population growth and make sure it gets to the places where it needs to and doesn’t apply the pressures where it causes concern on services.
So that’s what our Government is doing.
Well the ABC Board, that’s their job, to decide how well that show’s being run. They’ve made a decision about that and it's for them now to go through the process and recommend a new appointment.
Well I spoke to the Communications Minister last night who advised me about the decision of the Board. Let's not forget, they're an independent board. It's their job.
It’s their job and they will need to have gone through all the proper processes to make the decision they have.
I want to see an ABC that's strong and doing its job and that's well run and the Board does as well, that's what they’re responsible for. I’ll hold them to account for that.
Well, I’ve always thought Jen’s pavs were popular, but you know clearly they were more popular than I thought.
It's not for me to agree or not agree, it's their job. They’ve made their decision and they're responsible for it.
All I know is that if Bill Shorten is Prime Minister, everyone is going to be paying higher taxes. The economy will not grow as strongly. What I do know about Bill Shorten is he thinks he's already got the job.
Bill Shorten thinks he is already there.
He's strutting around, whether it’s Melbourne or Sydney or Brisbane or anywhere else around the country, as if he's already in the job.
Ultimately they're matters for the Speaker. I thought the Speaker last night provided I think, some good responses and some good measured comments, as Smithy always does. I think Tony Smith has been an outstanding Speaker of the House of Representatives.
He's well-respected right around the chamber.
\sI thought it was interesting in the piece last night that they were able to bring in the strawberries bill, which showed that for all the to-ing and fro-ing, we were able, last week to get a bill through the House in about 36 hours, to deal with an issue of real concern to Australians.
Marise is of course an active supporter of the airport.
I‘ll tell you who hasn't been for the airport; the shadow treasurer has been against this airport. The Member for Chifley has been against this airport. There are many Labor members of federal Parliament who have been against the airport.
That's for them, they can explain that to the people.
But today is not a day for that. Today is a day to say; "How good is this? Welcome to the future of Sydney.” We're really pleased to be stepping up and doing our part as a Government.
Our Government has delivered on our promise to get this project off the ground.
We keep our promises. We're going to keep keeping our promises and demonstrating to the Australian people that we’re right there for them, we’re on their side. You only have to look around at whats happening here today to see just how true that is.
So thanks very much for your attention, a great day. Cheers.
Thanks David.
We do.
Yeah, we do. That’s right, I spoke to Bill about it yesterday and that support is there. So we will introduce the laws this morning.
No one is going home until they’re passed.
I imagine that will happen with that support, speedily through the Parliament.
This is an important preventative legislation as well, because as you just said, many of the things we’re seeing are pranks and things like this. One of the other laws we’re passing today is that if people do this recklessly, as opposed to with serious intent, they will also face potential prison terms for that type of offence.
So if any of you are doing and thinking of doing that and thinking it’s a laugh, it’s not funny.
It’s very serious and it carries very serious penalties.
That’s right. That's the very clear message. That’s why we’re moving very urgently to make sure this is passed through the Parliament ASAP.
So we appreciate the support of Parliament for doing that.
You know, you’ve got to take action quickly on these things.
That's what we’re doing.
Yeah, well you might be able to see behind that hay truck behind us. There is this quite ridiculous law which says that the truck width is about 2.5 metres, and you put the hay on it and once you travel for a while, it spreads out at the bottom and when they hit a border, they can get a fine.
Or, they have to apply for permits so it can be more than 2.
5 metres. So, we’re just changing that rule, changing that law right across the country for the states. The states have signed up for this, so there won’t be a need for that anymore.
That will remove the need for a 6,000 permits a year.
It just means that those getting hay to where it’s needed, they can keep on trucking. They don’t have to stop.
Well David, you wouldn’t expect me to discuss national security issues in an interview like this or anywhere else. The Pacific is a very high-priority area of strategic national security interest for Australia. We work very closely with all our Pacific partners.
That’s why we have the Pacific Island Forum recently, we showed a lot of support there.
We’ll continue to do that. But I’m not going to comment on speculation on national security issues, that would not be appropriate.
G’day Ray, nice to be talking.
It’s been a while mate.
Yeah?
Mate, it was a while ago now but my view hasn’t changed. It’s a big part of Australia’s energy future.
Well, Angus is bringing back a package of things for me right now.
To see how we can get greater investment in what I call “fair dinkum power”; that’s the stuff that works when the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow. So I’m waiting on Angus to come back to me with those options. One of the things we will be moving to do is creating a divestment power, which is something I initiated when I was Treasurer.
The ACCC didn’t recommend it, but I thought it was necessary because the only thing I’ve ever seen make those big energy companies move is when you’ve got a big stick.
So you know, we’ve got to create the power to have that big stick. So Angus is working away on that. I think you’ve got a pretty clear indication from him and me about how we think things should be done.
Yeah, we want to see more fair dinkum power generated in Australia. We want to see more investment go into it and that’s a big part of getting electricity prices down. I’ve always said that.
That’s true.
Yeah it has, it has and I’m also pleased that Tony took up my invitation to work on something he’s massively passionate about and that is getting young indigenous kids in school. I mean, Ray, you’ll be aware of the work that Clontarf does both in AFL and rugby –
They do a great job. I’ve been involved with them for a long time, but getting indigenous kids to remote and regional area schools is a big part of the answer and you know, Tony is just going to do a great job on it.
Yeah.
That’s exactly it, mate. That’s exactly it, I mean, we’ve got one focus and that is keep our economy strong, we’ve got to keep Australians safe and we’ve got to keep them together too. I think people have had a gutful of all the sort of nonsense that goes on in Canberra.
I have and I know my team has and that’s why we’re just focused on delivering for your listeners.
No.
It gets a bit willing.
Well, it does work both ways on both sides of politics. But she was going to be endorsed as the Liberal candidate that had been made pretty clear, so it wasn’t about that.
But you know sometimes State Members of Parliament stick their nose in the business of Federal Members’ areas. I don’t think that’s a particularly good look, that’s not how we do it around my part of town. We both focus on our jobs and try to work closely together, which we’ve been doing together with Mark Speakman and Eleni Petinos, Craig Kelly and the local councillors there, Carmelo Pesce down in southern Sydney.
We all just work together.
But, clearly there has been a couple of issues down there and Ann has decided to retire at the next election. That’s her call and I wish her well. We’ll pick another great candidate for Gilmore and the South Coast area where I have got a lot of family and I know very well.
It’s usually where I go on holidays with family and have for a very long period of time.
It’s a beautiful part of the country. So we’ll just get on with that. I’ll leave those issues to the Party organisation.
What it’s turned out, all the issues that have been raised around these things over the last few weeks, they actually, at the end of the day have related to the Party organisation, not the parliamentary Party here in Canberra. That’s why I have asked the Party organisation to come up with a rigorous and confidential process to deal with these things. But I’m not going to get distracted by it.
I’ve got to focus, look through the dust and make sure we’re focusing on the things that make a big difference, like getting people’s electricity prices down.
Look, that’s true and we’ve got to do better. I want to see more Liberal women in Parliament, but I always want the best candidate. At Wentworth, we got the best candidate.
So I can’t complain about that, I think that’s the right outcome.
But I do want to see Liberal women going into pre-selections, being well prepared, getting good support, getting the right sort of training to go and do these jobs. It’s like in any job, if you want someone to go a good job as a chief executive or head of HR or head of planning or finance or something, well you’ve got to get them trained and well-supported to be able to perform and secure those jobs. So that’s where the Party organisation I think has a big job to do to get more women in Parliament.
I want the best people for the job every time there’s a preselection.
In Wentworth, that’s what we got and he’s up against what it turns out to be – I mean, look, I’ve known Kerryn Phelps for a long time, she’s not a Liberal and we know that because a former Labor staffer is running her campaign.
Well, that’s right. It raises two questions; are they doing it to just get the Labor candidate up at the end of the day? Which is often what Labor do, they’ll run an independent like they did down in Braddon and effectively support an independent to knock out a Liberal candidate. We know what that’s all about.
So the only way you can ensure we continue the continuity and stability of what’s happening here for our economy as a nation, is to vote for Dave Sharma.
He’s the only Liberal candidate in that field and anyone pretending to be or thinking they might be; “Oh, I won’t cause too much mischief.” Well, we don’t want any mischief. We’ve got to get on with the job.
That’s what we’ll do again today. Up, up, Cronulla. Sadly, I would love to be there on Friday night, but I’ve got other commitments here in Sydney so I’ll be checking it out with some locals at a local pub in southern Sydney.
But I wish Flanno and Gal and all the boys, all the best.
I think it’s going to be a great game, it really is going to be a great game. Two tremendous sides, it’ll be a great clash.
Yeah, mate of course, Ray of course. I know you speak regularly to Pete too and you know I’m giving him 100 per cent support.
We’re not going to be intimidated by the Labor Party and following their agenda. We’ll follow ours and get on with the job.
Thanks, Ray, cheers.
Good morning Alan.
Well the first thing is to reassure Australians about what we believe. We have been very good at the “what” – \smillion jobs, all of the achievements we’ve had on funding, whether it’s for schools, disability schemes or all of this, we’ve been delivering as a Government.
But the “why”, the why, people want to know. They want to be able to be assured that we believe passionately in the same things that the Australian people believe in. That’s a fair go for those who have a go.
That you come to make a contribution not take one.
That the best form of welfare is a job. These are the things that we believe and that will drive our policies as a Government.
Well Alan, I’ll be getting electricity prices down.
Well, we meet it in a canter. So therefore -
Alan, just let me finish. We meet it in a canter. It’ll have no impact on electricity prices.
But I’ll tell you what will; Labor will legislate a 45 per cent emissions reductions target.
That will push people’s power prices up by $1,400 dollars a year. The policies that we’re working on will see prices fall by around $400 a year and that’s just on the price guarantee.
No, no, that’s -
I’ll tell you what I’m going to do Alan.
I’m going to make decisions in the national interest.
I have to consider not just the issues here. Let me tell you what’s happening in the Pacific. In the Pacific, this is an issue which is incredibly important.
In the Pacific, this issue dominates their thinking and agenda.
Now, the Pacific is one of the most strategic areas of influence in our world today.
Which I don’t support, Alan.
No, no –
No, it’s going to be because of technology and people’s energy usage. That’s what’s also changing. I mean people’s energy usage has been changing for years.
No, it’s changing because it gets more efficient. The devices they use, the way that they build houses these days, all of this, it’s all changing.
Alan, I plan to win the next election. I’m not going to win the next election by fighting it on Bill Shorten’s ground. Bill Shorten wants to have an ideological debate about climate.
I want to have a practical debate about reducing electricity prices.
So if people want to see a Liberal Party win at the next election, the thing to focus on is the practical things that reduce electricity prices. That’s what I’m focused on.
The National Energy Guarantee legislation, which was going to legislate the Paris Target, is not going ahead. We confirmed that decision at Cabinet last night.
No.
I haven’t spoken to him -
I’m a merit person and the Party members will decide our candidate in Wentworth.
It’s their choice Alan. Just like it has to be, in every single seat in the country -
Look, of course I want to see more women in the Federal Parliament. I want to see more -
In New South Wales and in every state and territory. We have not done as well in that area as I’d like us to do, but the Party members are the ones who have to take on that responsibility. They’re the ones that have to make those decisions.
Well, I don’t know what ‘setup’ you’re talking about. This is the set up, we have Party Whips, they provide the pastoral care amongst colleagues in the Parliament. I talk to all of my colleagues and we deal with those issues, to the extent, inside the tent and inside the family -
No, look -
I’ve talked to people and some have been concerned about things that have happened in their Party divisions. But it was a pretty torrid week a few weeks ago and the Party membership here in Canberra are getting past that and they’re getting on with the job. Which is what I expect them to do.
Yes.
Well I didn’t have to ask her, because that’s what she’s committed to do.
No, she was in Parliament yesterday.
Yes.
No, she’s sitting in a different seat now because she said she’s not contesting the next election.
Yeah, no he’s been in the job one week longer than I have and last night we confirmed all of his powers through Cabinet. The way that works is instead of having to work through umpteen different departments, he will have people working across multiple different departments answering directly into him, at the Commonwealth level. Now, obviously he can’t -
Well, effectively that’s happening. By putting one person in charge of a whole range of public service offices, from everything from Human Services across to the executive action -
It takes seven hours for a couple with a financial counsellor, that’s what they told me.
Yeah, it’s ridiculous.
Well, we’ve got it down by 25 per cent. I’ve told them that’s not enough, so they’re going back to work and getting it down further.
Well, as much as I do about sheep.
Have milked one though.
Sorry. Particularly on this issue.
Yeah, well, there’s two things here. One is what’s driving the prices up and we all know the reason for that. The other issue is more generally how you’re dealing with the pricing that takes place in the dairy industry.
Now, David Littleproud as you know, has been consulting with industry.
There’s not a common view about how this gets sorted. There is not a common view about whether a levy is the way to do that. I’m never a fan of taxes being the answer to problems.
He’s bringing that forward as a package -
Sorry?
I did.
No, no, I’ll tell you why I did that. Let me tell you why I did that, because the banks actually receive, effectively, a guarantee over their operations on their funding and that’s provided by the Government.
No, I’m not.
No, I said at the time, I said what it was.
So, David’s coming back to me and Cabinet with a plan. I’m also talking to Fiona Simson over at the National Farmers’ Federation, as you’d expect and other key stakeholders and I get it. I mean, I used to flat down here with Bill Heffernan and most Sunday nights -
It’s like the impact of gas prices, isn’t it?
If the gas feedstock price is going into commercial, industrial businesses – you know, you ask Dick Honan about that, down on the south coast of New South Wales.
You’ve seen what his gas feedstock prices have done. That’s why we need more gas\swhether it’s in New South Wales, Victoria or anywhere else.
Agreed.
I’m going to protect it. I’ve got the report back from Philip Ruddock and I’m working through that now as we speak. I’ll be making some announcements about that over the next few months as we get that response in place.
But I can tell you this’ people know what I said about this last year. They heard what I said in the Parliament last year about protecting people against these very circumstances. Now, people say: “Oh,” you know, “There’s been none of that and there’s no risk and there’s no threat and you don’t need to do anything.
”
Well, I disagree. I think, if you don’t have freedom of your faith, of your belief – and in whatever religion that is – then you don’t have freedom in this country at all.
It is the most profound thing an Australian -
Well, I just might. Alan.
Thanks a lot, Alan.
I can confirm.
Hey Amanda, how are you?
He did get Lilly and I a bucket of chips at the last game of the season that I was able to get to. Yeah so mate, if you’re coming tonight, I owe you a bucket of chips. Happy to return to favour.
Yes you can.
Of course you can.
Correct.
Well it was an extraordinary week. That’s exactly the situation Jonesy, but when you find yourself in those situations and people look to you, you’ve got to step up. That’s what I’ve done.
The last three weeks we’ve just been hard at work on pulling the team back together, getting the focus back where it needs to be. As you know the first place I went was up to Western Queensland to talk to farmers about the drought. I’ve been right up in North Queensland, from Cairns and down to Townsville.
In Townsville, we announced a big project up there to get the port moving.
So we’ve just been getting on with it as fast and as quickly as we can. Sure, there’s going to be a bit of water that is still going to go under the bridge, a bit of dirty water under the bridge. But look, that’s just how things are, and the Parliament was quite straightforward this week.
We all turned up, we won all the votes and people just got on with it.
That’s what I’m focused on doing.
Anyone who goes into the House of Representatives hopes to serve at the highest level they can, that’s true. Anyone who tells you differently, I don’t think is being very up front with you. But the question is how do you end up in that job? In my case, it was quite an extraordinary series of events but I wasn’t seeking to change the leadership as everyone knows, I stood very strongly with Malcolm.
But the Party formed a different view, so then they turned to me and I took up the call.
So what matters is all our people stop talking about themselves and each other and we’re absolutely focused on what the public want; that’s the price of their mortgage, the price of their electricity, it’s the drought, all of these issues. That’s where my head is, I’m a mortgage-belt Liberal.
Yeah.
Who’s there?
Peter who?
Chip buddy.
Well they’ve got to sort of come around you and you get the same security that turns up when you go into a job like this. That happened to me many years ago when I was the Immigration Minister and we had to live with that. With the girls, that’s a bit of a change for the family and they’ve been really good.
So at the footy, there’s a few extra seats I have to account for now, when I come.
As you know when I go along it’d just be me and Lilly or friends and we’d sit there and have a great time.
But that won’t change, you know how much I love going and doing that. I’m going to love going out there tonight with my daughter, she’ll have her flag all ready to go tonight and looking forward to a really good game. We’re going to miss Wade Graham though I reckon.
Yep, Josh is out, but the strength of the Sharks has that they’ve always had other who are going to step up into those roles. That’s what they’ll be doing and I’m sure that Flanno will have them raring to go.
Well that’s why I’ve got to buy you one tonight mate, if you’re coming? There you go, I’ll return the favour.
The Jonesy posse.
Thanks mate.
Well we’re looking at that at the moment, it’s not something we really thought much about. The girls go to school locally and they’ll continue to do that and that’s really important. Jen is keeping family life very much the same.
But I’ve got to tell you, I don’t know whether you saw that ACA interview where Jenny and I were interviewed and she said she wished I was a plumber.
I bumped into our plumber down at Cronulla Mall on Sunday, Warren and he looked at me and said; “Hey ScoMo, Jenny likes plumbers,” and he put his thumbs up.
So on that note, we’ll get the removal vans in this afternoon.
He’s a good plumber too, I’ve got to say and much better him doing it than me.
They do well, they work hard so good for them.
Will do, absolutely. Absolutely will do that and we’ve got Dave Sharma who’s been selected as the Liberal candidate in Wentworth last night and he’s a great guy. He’s a former Australian ambassador to Israel and he’s got a lot of experience.
He’s actually got three daughters, but two of them the same age as mine.
I think he’s going to do a great job there. As people know, I’ve always wanted to see more women in Parliament and more women winning Logies too, Amanda.
But you know, you’ve always got to pick the best candidate.
That’s how we do things and I think Dave’s going to do a great job.
Thanks for having me on. You going to be there tonight Jonesy?
Excellent. Well I’ll send you a text and mate, come round and I’ll buy you those chips.
Thanks guys.
I’m good, good to see you.
That’s right.
Look, I’ve been supporting Ann for a long time, ever since she’s been in the Parliament. We are good mates and I know her part of the world very, very well. I’ve got a lot of family who live down that way and Jo Gash before her was a great member and they were good friends as well.
But you know sometimes people, they can find this job just a bit too much at times without that support locally from some of the local Party members that she’s identified. That’s unfortunate, that’s really a matter for the Party organisation to sort out. I’d love to see Ann continue, but you’ve got to respect the decisions people make.
She’s a good mate, I wish her all the best.
I know she’s going to remain here and work hard for her constituents between now and the next election when the Party will be going forward to select a new candidate there in the seat of Gilmore. As you know, it’s a very tight seat, it always has been. But it’s been well-served by the Liberal Party going back to when Jo Gash first won the seat back from Labor many, many years ago.
Well, look it is a very tight seat. It always has been and it’s had some very good members. There are a lot of real important issues down there, whether they’re for seniors or whether they’re for families or for veterans, or indigenous issues that need to be addressed there.
A lot of youth unemployment, I know that’s something that Ann’s been very passionate about.
Local infrastructure issues, all of that will continue to get attention from our Government and I think Ann has worked very hard for her community. We’ll be seeking to have a candidate who will go above and beyond what she’s been able to achieve, in the same way that Joanna Gash before her did as well.
We’re spending $11.2 billion every year on this and that’s of itself a significant investment by the Australian community to recognise the service of our veterans. These days obviously, our veterans are those who have been serving most recently.
In my own community in southern Sydney, with the Holsworthy Base not far outside of my electorate, there are a lot of returned service people living in my community.
I’ve listened to their stories and those of their families and in fact Bree Till, whose husband Brett Till was killed back in 2008, I think it was and we’ve been supporting that family for a long time. Bree has been a great advocate for the cause of families who are affected by our engagements.
But a lot of local people are supportive of the need for these mental health services. Now, we’ve been investing more into mental health services. You serve one day and you get access to mental health services.
Just one day and that’s what we do.
As we should do that.
There’s an added, I think, obligation when we’re talking about our veterans. What I’d add to that is we’re also ensuring that we’re trying to get veterans into work, when they come out. For some, it is a huge transition, particularly for those who have served in multiple rotations of service overseas.
“Normal” doesn’t mean the same thing anymore, when you’ve done that.
There’s a very hard adjustment. For others who have served in our military, they make that transition a little more easily. What we do know is that their skills and their abilities are very high.
But often it’s the adjustment process of moving out of the military environment into a civilian environment.
Now I’ve seen, whether it’s Soldier On that has been dealing with those adjustments for individuals, or other work programmes that have been helping people make that transition. It is achievable, there’s no doubt about that and we’ve just got to keep doubling down and doing more and getting it right. But there’s no question I think about the commitment from anybody.
The veteran-centric reforms that we’ve putting in place over the last few Budgets are all about trying to better connect with our modern day veterans. One of the key things that came up was the call wait times. We invested a lot in trying to reduce those call wait times, because you know, those call wait times, if they’re too long, that can have the worst possible of outcomes.
So there’s been a lot of work put in to revitalise the whole infrastructure investment platforms, the ICT platforms, to make sure that they can be more effective and more efficient. Now Darren Chester is a very committed individual as our Minister for Veterans Affairs. I think he’s doing a very good job, but it’s very tough job.
Because the expectations are rightly up here of veterans and of the community.
It’s a very high standard we have to keep aiming for. So they have my commitment, they have the commitment of our entire Government, but you’ve just got to keep making the investments. You’ve got to connect in with the modern day veteran as they’re making their adjustment to civilian life.
Now I’ll tell you another programme we did which started under my treasurership. This actually relates to the children of veterans. It’s a passion of mine, Kookaburra Kids have been running respite camps for young people who have come from families suffering from mental illness.
A number of years ago there were some kids who came along to the camp and the reason they were there is because their father has suffered from PTSD from service overseas.
Now the camp didn’t quite work the same way for kids of veterans. So what we’ve done is we’ve invested in taking that programme and applied it particularly to kids of veterans who suffer from PTSD.
Now in some cases these are servicemen and women who have come home, but they’ve never come home. They literally have not walked back in the front door of the family home and their kids are saying, “Where’s dad? Where’s mum?”
It’s not going to change electricity prices one jot. What I’ve said very carefully is that if it’s not going to make any difference to electricity prices, so why don’t you just get out of it anyway?
Well, let’s take a look to the south-west Pacific. This is the number one issue of our Pacific neighbours, our strategic partners, our strategic security partners. This is their number one issue.
There are a lot of influences in the south-west Pacific and I’m not going to compromise Australia’s national security by walking away from a commitment that was made a number of years ago to that target.
It’s been there for the last four years or three years, just over three years.
Getting out of it won’t make electricity prices go down, but it will highlight a number of other important risks for us which I’m not prepared to countenance in the national interest. So that’s the reason for my decision. As Prime Minister, I have to make decisions in the national interest.
I know a lot of people have concerns about it.
But frankly, at the end of the day, we’re going to meet this thing in a canter in 2030. We’ve met the other two in a canter, 2021 included, that’s going to be smashed.
So the question is, why would you do it when it’s not going to make any difference to the electricity prices, but it could potentially also create some serious issues for us in managing our strategic interests in the region?
But that won’t be required either. I mean, this is what I’ll do; I’ll get electricity prices down, how about that? We’ll get the default price in place, which was policy of the Government, which ensures that once you come off your special offer, your price doesn’t go up to the ratcheted up price, it comes down to the default price. It’s that default price which now determines where all the discounts go from.
Putting a big stick on the electricity companies to make sure they do the right thing and that will include legislated powers for divestment if they do the wrong thing.
Thirdly, get some investment in some fair dinkum power generation. That’s what you actually have to do to get electricity prices down.
Engaging in the climate wars may tickle the ears of the ideologues, but frankly it makes no difference to what’s going to happen with electricity prices.
But I’ll tell you what will make a difference; if you have an emissions reduction target of 45 per cent. Okay, that’s big. 26 per cent is a low alcohol beer, 45 per cent is a full schooner of single malt, when it comes to it’s impact on electricity prices.
Now that means $1,400 extra for every family in the country.
That’s Labor’s plan. If people want to get concerned about emissions reductions targets, think about what Bill Shorten is going to do, because that will increase your electricity prices.
Whatever it is for fair dinkum power.
That’s certainly my plan.
Well, Angus is bringing back the first instalment of that. I’ve outlined the three key things that need to be done to achieve that. The third piece is all very much about whether that’s guaranteeing the take-out price on the back end of the contracts or other things that can be done to firm up the investment proposal to get these projects happening.
Now it also requires people wanting to invest at the same time. So that’s where that investment will come from, that we want to create the right climate for that. We want it to be in fair dinkum power, we want the reliability guarantee, that’s still important.
That’s before the states.
We do want to ensure there is contracted reliability in the electricity market, because where there is more contracting, there is more certainty and that means you don’t get affected by the price spikes. So we do want to see that happen.
The measures are there. Bill Shorten wants to legislate. You know he’s talking about; “Oh, we’re going to revisit the NEG.
” This is what that means - when I take out that BS - Bill Shorten, that is, I should stress – test on this.
He’s saying that he wants to legislate a Paris target of 45 per cent. So if you’re worried about Paris, think about that; a legislated Paris target of 45 per cent. I’m not legislating any Paris target, none.
Well, it’s been a long time since I’ve been in one, Paul, probably you too.
There’s free speech for some and not for others.
I think that’s been an issue. What I’ve always noticed from the Left is that they’re happy to have free speech, so long if you agree with them. If you have a different view to them, then apparently you’re a bigot.
That’s what universities are for. Now you and I would have no truck with hate speech or whatever, however that’s described –
People should treat each other with respect and people should act in accordance with Australians values.
We’re a very tolerant society. That doesn’t mean, as someone once famously said, you’ve got to tolerate the intolerable. But at the same time, so long as people act in accordance with those core beliefs and values, there should be free-ranging ideas.
Of course.
True, I cancelled, I think, some people’s visas for doing that.
Let me give you this example. I send my kids to a Christian school, I think that Christian school should be able to ensure they can provide education consistent with the Christian faith and teaching that I believe as a parent. That’s why I’m sending them there.
I don’t think that school should be told who they can and can’t employ, or have restrictions on them in ensuring that they’re delivering to me – the parent, their client, their customer – what I’ve invested in for my children’s education.
Here’s another one. Let’s say you have some particular religious views about something or other that’s deeply held within your faith. It doesn’t contravene national laws or anything like this and a company has a particular policy which doesn’t sit well with your view.
You’re a totally competent person to sit on that board of a public company.
Why should you be denied a directorship or a partnership, indeed in a law firm or an accountancy firm, just because you happened to have expressed on Facebook or somewhere about a particular religious belief? That shouldn’t happen in this country. Now, I’m not saying it is, necessarily and people say; “Oh well, if there’s not this great problem, why do you need to do it?” Can they guarantee me it won’t happen in the future? I’ve seen where this issue has gone over the last ten years and issues of freedom of speech, I’ve seen where they’ve gone over the last ten years.
Not quite sure I’m pleased with the trajectory. So there’s nothing wrong with a bit of preventative regulation and legislation to ensure that your religious freedom in this country. I mean, what’s more fundamental that that?
Me too.
This is a noxious problem. Sitting in my office, I’ve had it for many years, is the plaque of a young girl Shirley Ngalkin. Shirley was raped and drowned in a creek in one of these communities.
I keep it there as a constant reminder to me of that challenge.
This is one of the reasons I asked Tony to take on this job as a Special Envoy on Indigenous education and getting kids into school. There are many things we can do, but you know, getting kids in school and keeping them in school and ensuring they’re getting an education and that their dreams can become realities - I’ve seen this through my involvement in the Clontarf Foundation as well - seeing how those boys’ lives are changed. This is a big opportunity.
I think you’ve just got to keep trying to tackle problem after problem after problem.
Now, I know how passionate Tony is about this. I’ve been up in communities with him when there’s no cameras around, sitting down and talking about these issues. I want him to be able to have free reign on this.
I don’t want him to be constrained – terrifying thought - as a Minister trying to defend Government policy and all this sort of thing.
He needs to sit down and hear it straight and tell it straight.
That’s why I’ve got Barnaby doing a very similar job when it comes to our drought relief and recovery plan. I think both of them, with their standing in the Australian community and their skills - and Tony particularly in this area - I think he’s going to do a cracker of a job. He’s not just going to serve it up to me, he’s going to serve it up to, I assume, the states as well and be able to look at these problems above and outside Government.
With his unique experience I think he’s going to add a lot there.
Dear oh dear. Time to end the interview.
Cheers, Paul, thanks mate.
Thank you very much, Leigh. Great to be here.
Look Leigh, I didn't seek a change to the Prime Ministership. I didn't contest the leadership on that basis. I contested it on the basis that the Party had made a decision that they no longer were supporting the previous Prime Minister.
In that context, I stood up to continue the great work that we've been doing over the last five years, and I sought and gained their confidence to do just that.
So as I’ve said on a number of occasions, when placed in command, take charge. I mean I’ve been part of this Government for five years. I’m very proud of what we’ve achieved and as the next generation of leadership, together with Josh Frydenberg, I’m pleased to take that agenda forward.
Well, I was not the one who sought to change it Leigh and this is my point.
I think, sadly, over the last ten years there have been too many of these changes and they’ve occurred on both sides of politics. Sadly I don't think Australians are as shocked by these things as they used to be. I know they’re still just as disappointed and I think -
They can be. But what matters to them now is, where we go from here.
The Party Room decide who the leader of the Liberal Party should be. They formed the view that they no longer supported the leadership of Malcolm Turnbull and they voted on that. That was declared vacant and in that context, I put my hand up to take us forward.
That's what I'm now doing.
So there is a continuity with what we have achieved over the last five years. As I've been setting out, my plan is focused on three key things to make an even stronger Australia. To keep the economy strong, to ensure we keep Australians safe and to ensure we bring and keep Australians together.
Well, I didn't oppose it.
That's right and as John Howard always said, the leadership of the parliamentary Liberal Party is the gift of the parliamentary party. They have chosen to make that change. In that context, I put my hand up after they decided they didn't want to proceed with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.
Well there's a continuity, there's no doubt about that. There's an absolute continuity, I mean, I stood with Tony Abbott when we stopped the boats. I stood with Malcolm Turnbull as we balanced the Budget.
Now, as we go forward we continue to keep our economy strong, keep Australians safe.
But I have a very strong focus on how we need to bring the country together.
When placed in command, take charge. How’s that for candid? That's what I'm saying and that’s what I’m doing.
There are important responsibilities that Australians expect from me. I said very clearly; number one, we need to sort out our coordination to the drought. We need to get electricity prices down.
I have been very quick to highlight the key challenges.
Congestion-busting in our cities to deal with population growth. Ensuring that we have our energy policy clear on what we can do, what we are not going to do. Dealing with other issues such as the pension age, which was expected as a policy to go to 70.
I have made that change, got it back to 67 which is where Labor legislated it to.
We're making decisions, we're getting on with it.
No, but equally that is a matter for the organisational wing of the Liberal Party, but it's never something I have supported.
Because I believe in any political organisation, it should be a matter of one's own effort and exertion and credibility and merit.
Well, Julie Bishop was invited to remain as the Minister for Foreign Affairs in my Government and she made her choice and I respect her choice. But on top of that, what I am focusing on with Kelly O’Dwyer and other members of the team, Senator Payne, is to ensure that we remove the obstacles that are preventing women from going forward. I don't believe quotas are the way you remove obstacles -
Well Leigh many years ago Christine McDiven, the first female President of the Federal Liberal Party, put in place training programs for women to help get them to a position where they won pre-selections, adjusted to parliamentary life, understood the things that would be expected of them and how they would perform. Now, the result of that back in 1996 under John Howard, was a record intake of women. It's a very similar, practical exercise and this is what Kelly O'Dwyer has been working on.
It's a matter of supporting women throughout the pre-selection process, to identify, to encourage, to support and to recruit and then to support them through that process.
Then when they get into Parliament, ensure they're getting the support they need to do the job. I mean it's a very practical exercise.
There have been no names provided to me about any of that. What I -
When I spoke to Senator Gichuhi she made it very clear to me that in terms of the events in Canberra and the spill of the leadership, she told me very plainly that she was not bullied by anybody here in Canberra, in relation to that matter.
There are some other issues that, when I've got into detail of this issue with several of my colleagues, of matters that relate to the party divisions and how things are dealt with there. But this is a very torrid business, Leigh, as we know. What I do know of the events of a couple of weeks ago, was that my standard, my example, I think more than met what people would expect.
That's what I'm doing going forward.
At the same time, there was no sort of gender-specific actions that related to what some would call very intense lobbying. Which is fairly normal in the political process, albeit not edifying.
Sure.
Well, that is what we signed up to and as Prime Minister, I agree with that -
Particularly in relation to the threats and the understanding with our Pacific peoples. We’ve worked very closely with them on those issues and we continue to provide them with that support.
We're also a part of the Indo-Pacific, we have a much bigger agenda –
Because we’ve already made our commitments to the targets. We’ve already met our first range of targets in Kyoto 1 and very comfortably. We’re going to meet Kyoto 2 and I have no doubts about the fact that we're going to meet our targets out to 2030.
We have our commitments, we have our policies in place.
They are working and that’s –
Well, we’re reducing emissions by 26 per cent. That’s out to 2030.
The Emissions Reduction Fund has been a key component of –
Well, that's how we're meeting our 2020 target and Melissa Price, the Minister, will be bringing forward further measures in this area to make sure we're acting consistently with our targets, Leigh.
So, what we're seeing though is a business as usual approach, a technology-driven approach, which will see us, I think, more than meet our targets out to 2030. This is work that is continuing and that is being effective. We have set our course on that.
I don’t believe it will have any effect on electricity prices where we have currently set our targets.
When it comes to electricity prices, we're very focused on getting them down, particularly by addressing reliable power supply.
Well, I’ve separated energy policy and climate policy, environment policy. We’ve got our –
Our emissions reductions targets are set. They've been the same for four years. So –
But we'll meet our targets. So, the 26 per cent emissions remission target is set.
No, no, let me finish. It's been the same for four years. There's been no change.
The certainty is there.
We're not changing it. So, I think people can make decisions based on what the clear statement of the Government's policy has been over four years and going forward into the future. I don't think there's any question about it.
We haven't changed our emissions policy, Leigh. It's the same policy that we had a month ago, it's the same policy we have now, our emissions reduction policy hasn't changed. The certainty of that emissions policy is clear.
Leigh, that would only be a relevant factor if I was changing our emissions reduction policy, which I'm not.
The emissions reduction policy is set. It's 26 per cent. I don’t think I can be more clear.
To get electricity prices down, what we're not going to do is legislate a 45 per cent target, which is what Labor would do, which means the prices would go up, it's estimated, by $1,400 per household. What we will do to get electricity prices down, in addition to guaranteeing the supply of gas into the Australian market, in addition to that, it is the safety net on price. It is the big stick on electricity companies.
It is a better investment framework for reliable power, fair dinkum power generation into the market.
They’re completely legitimate companies which are at the centre of the Australian economy. But as you’ve heard from many of the banks, I don't understand they’ll be continuing to make any of those donations anyway. But I don't have any issue with legitimate companies participating in a democracy.
That’s actually not the point, Leigh. What the point is, is that Australians want to be sure that in the future those things won't be –
I believe there could be problems in the future, I articulated those things when I spoke in the House last year. We’ve had a process which is being pursued by Philip Ruddock, leading that expert panel, that panel has reported back to the Government. I'm now in receipt of that report and what I can guarantee all Australians is that their religious freedoms will be protected by law if necessary.
I want parents to continue to have a complete right of choice when they send their kids to a faith-based school, that the faith-based nature of those schools is protected. I want to make sure that if people have particular religious views, that they won't be discriminated against. Just like people of different genders or people of races will not be discriminated against.
Religious freedom, it doesn't get more serious than that when it comes to liberties.
If you don't have the freedom to believe in your own faith, then what is liberty?
Yes, I do, because look, I worked with Roman when I was the Immigration and Border Protection Minister. I'm disappointed that the claims that he's making now are being so palpably demonstrated to be false. I mean they lack complete credibility.
I'm disappointed that he has made these false claims and sought to sledge the character of Peter Dutton.
What I know is this; Peter Dutton has done a great job taking over from me when I was the Immigration and Border Protection Minister. He has done an outstanding job on securing our borders. The Labor Party seem more intent on stopping au pairs than stopping bikie gangs and people smugglers.
I think that reflects on Labor's very weak record when it comes to border security.
Correct.
No, that's not what I was saying. What I was saying Leigh, is as a Government we've been very good managers and we've been very practical, focusing on the things we need to do. But what's important in politics is that people also understand the ‘whys’ behind the ‘what’.
We've been focused on doing the things, Leigh. What I'm saying, particularly as we go forward to this next election, is I've talked about the fair go for those who have a go. I’ve talked about the need to look after your mates with a proper safety net.
I’ve talked about the need to honour those who seek to make a contribution, rather than take one.
And importantly this, which really separates us from the Labor Party; we don't think other people have to do worse, for you to do better. We are rejecting Labor's politics of envy and that's why we believe in lower taxes, backing small businesses. It’s why we believe in the NDIS and guaranteeing Medicare.
People can trust us because of what we believe and what we do. They get the full package with the Liberal and National Parties under my leadership.
Thanks a lot Leigh.
Well thanks very much, David, both as the Member for Banks and Minister. John and Darren, it’s great to be with you here today at the business that has been your lifeblood for a generation. It’s been passed on to the next generation, and together what you and Anne have achieved, both here in this business, and clearly raising a family and doing everything you’ve done here says everything we all know about Australian small and medium sized family businesses.
Employees who work here, some 60 of them, many of them have been here for decades.
That’s provided the provided the consistency the opportunities in life – they’ve gone to weddings, they’ve gone to all sorts of things of their staff. That’s what family and small and medium sized businesses are like right across the country.
You know fairness in Australia is about you get a go if you have a go. And John and Darren have been having a go and they’ve been getting a go, and we want to see those principles, those values continue to be encouraged in this country. That’s why as Treasurer I introduced lower taxes for small and medium sized businesses and was able to get that through the Parliament.
That’s why we were able to get lower personal taxes for all employees, but particularly for those on low to middle incomes who are working right here in this business.
We believe Australians should keep more of what they earn. That when they have a go then they get a go and they are the values and the principles that will drive my Government. Now, I should stress that the announcement that I made with the former Prime Minister, Mr Turnbull, last week absolutely holds.
We will not be going ahead with the full component of the enterprise tax plan.
That matter, we took to the last election, we sought to get it through the Parliament, and we will not be taking the full enterprise tax plan forward that we presented to the Parliament. The Senate has had its say on that issue. What I know in politics is that you have to respect that once it has reached that conclusion.
We sought through every opportunity that we had to try and ensure that all businesses in Australia had more competitive tax rates.
This Senate and this Parliament has ruled its verdict on this question. But what I will be doing with Josh Frydenberg, with Michaelia Cash, with my Cabinet team, is bringing forward a new competitive tax plan for small and medium sized businesses just like John and Darren’s here in suburban Sydney. Because I want to make sure that they continue to get a go because they are a having a go.
So we are backing in business. We are backing in businesses like this one to ensure that we can continue the strong jobs growth that we’ve been able to achieve. I have served in the Abbott Government where I stood with Tony Abbott to stop the boats.
I have served in the Turnbull Government where I stood with Malcolm Turnbull where we’ve kept our economy strong and we got people into work.
And my team is standing with me now to continue all of that work and to ensure an even stronger Australia where we have a strong economy, where we keep Australians together and we keep Australians safe. Happy to take questions but it’s great to have you here John and Darren. They’re going ask a whole bunch of questions about plenty of other things so it’s great to have you here.
Congratulations on what you’ve achieved.
That's a matter I have been in close contact with the Attorney-General on and I’m taking his advice on those matters and the Government will deal with those matters inside its own processes.
I am saying that I have been consulting with the Attorney-General and we are dealing with those issues within our internal processes and I would not have appointed Mr Dutton to the important role he has without having considered those matters.
Now this is not a one-on-one interview and there are lots of other questions and lots of other journalists.
No, I don't accept that at all. I have discussed this matter directly with the Attorney-General and I would not have taken the decision that I have taken without having had those discussion.
Well I have no truck with bullying or intimidation in whatever form it is. I said the other day when it comes to keeping Australians safe - that means everything from what we do on our borders through to ensuring we speak out on things that prevent bullying in the classroom or anywhere else. I am the father of two young daughters and I have in truck with that sort of culture or behaviour.
One of the things we are moving quickly to do is ensure we restore that strong culture in the Liberal Party and bring the party together and show the stability and unity that is necessary, that Australians are looking to me to provide.
I have spoken to Julia today and I spoke to her yesterday as well. I think the events of the last week, they have been quite dramatic events, and all Australians looking in, I know, would have been pretty disappointed, more than disappointed, with those events. They should also know that those events take a pretty high human toll inside the parliament.
It is a very robust discussion and I know Julia has been very concerned about that and she has raised those concerns with me.
I want to thank her for ruling out the position that she would be leaving the Parliament. I want to thank her for strong vote of confidence she has given me in remaining in the Parliament to support my Government going forward. As you know, Cathy McGowan today has issued a statement saying that there will be her support for confidence in the House of Representatives until the Wentworth by-election in the event that that is called once that is concluded and the writs are returned and then we will sit down and talk again.
So I thank Cathy McGowan for her support.
I have had a similar verbal assurance from Bob Katter as well so my first job has been to restore stability and get the Government back and working and my Ministers are out there doing that today, including Minister Dutton and the Attorney who are up in Queensland dealing with the Five Eyes meeting at the current time. So I thank Julia for that and I will look closely at these issues and I have been talking very directly with my colleagues. I have laid down the law to my Cabinet.
I have laid down the law to my Ministry and to the parliamentary secretary ranks of my Government.
They know what I expect and I have every confidence they will live up to what I expect.
The Minister for Women and I have discussed this matter as well today. I will continue to do that with Kelly O'Dwyer but what is important right now is Julia's welfare. I know she is going to take a bit of time out between now and when the Parliament comes back.
My first concern is for her welfare and wellbeing and she is taking the time to ensure that that is taken care of and she has my support fully in that.
So what am I doing right now? I'm supporting Julia and reaching out to Julia and giving her every comfort and support for what has been a pretty torrid ordeal for her and I will continue to consult with my colleagues about ensuring that there can be no question about the culture of the Liberal Party. There should not be and certainly under my authority there would have been absolutely nothing of that sort taking place.
Well you are making reference about three individuals and those allegations have not been made. I act on facts, not on allegations.
The Chief Whip hasn't raised that with me, no.
I missed the first bit of that.
Well it is disappointing. I wasn’t supportive of it. I have come into the role to provide the stability and direction for the Liberal Party and the Government.
That is what I put my hand up for, and for my country.
I have stood up to serve my country. As I said I served my country under two Prime Ministers and been able to achieve a great deal with those two Prime Ministers and I intend to put my own mark on this Government as well. There is a continuity issue here.
There is continuity from border protection, to job creation, and where I intend to make Australia an even stronger country in the areas of our economy being strong, of Australians being safe and bringing Australians together as I bring my own party together.
What I'm doing right now is I am introducing myself to many Australians. They want to know who I am. They want it demonstrated to them that they know that I'm on their side.
That's what I will be doing in the weeks and months ahead.
I have already said clearly I'm focused on the priorities of the drought. That's where I was up in western Queensland earlier this week. I met with the National Farmer's Federation yesterday and talked through those sensitive issues.
I met with Angus Taylor yesterday on the critical issue of getting electricity prices down.
Here, right here at Galvatech, they have seen their power and gas bills go through the roof. The actions of the Government that I was part of to ensure that gas did not go offshore and stayed here and we secured the gas supply of this country. I was as much part of that decision when it was made as ensuring that it sticks now as Prime Minister today.
I am going to be the Prime Minister for getting electricity prices down.
Angus Taylor is the Minister for getting electricity prices down and that is a core focus of my Government particularly in the early days.
Well, the short answer is question. Of course Mr Shorten and the Labour Party are going to try and disrupt, they’re going to try to create instability, they are going to try to make hay. Bill Shorten is taking this next election for granted.
Bill Shorten is sitting there wondering what curtains are going to be put in his office and he is wondering about who he is going to appoint to be Governor-General.
Those are not things I am thinking about at all. What I am thinking about is lower electricity prices, I’m thinking about the drought, I’m focused very much on resolving the issues around school education. I am very focused and will be taking briefings from our new… working with our new assistant minister for the NDIS about the NDIS being delivered on the ground.
I am focused on the NBN and its roll out and making sure that that momentum is continued.
I am focused on the things that are going to impact on Australian's daily life right now. Bill Shorten can take the next election for granted if he likes. He can behave in that way, that's up to him.
I am introducing myself to Australians as I move around the country so people know exactly where I stand and the values and beliefs that I hold dear and that will drive me every day I have the privilege to serve in this office.
What I've been talking to the former prime minister about, Mr Abbott, has been a role, which I am very pleased that he has responded positively too, which is about getting Indigenous young people into school. What more important job could there be for that for those Indigenous young people. I am sure there is not a person in the country that would not agree that doing something to ensure we keep and get Indigenous young people into school, Indigenous kids into school, is something we should all work on.
I would say, that's what we've got to focus on.
I do. I have known Tony Abbott a very long time. I have worked with Tony Abbott alongside him on some important portfolios.
I remember a number of visits I made with Tony to central Australia on many issue, many years ago when I was a shadow housing minister and we walked from town to town and we sat in the dust, there were no cameras around, we were just sitting in the town camps in Alice Springs, I have been in Bamaga with him, I’ve been in the Torres Straight with him.
I know how passionate Tony Abbott is about changing generationally the life circumstances for Indigenous Australians. One of my areas of passion has been the Clontarf Foundation. That is all about getting indigenous boys into school and having them have a different path in life.
When you focus on the outcomes, which I know is what Tony is doing, that makes him the right person.
Just like, for me, focusing on those outcomes, that is where we need to go. So with that…
Well, you know, they have fronted up on this issue and I'm always going to be a passionate Sharkies fan but everyone has got to play by the rules. That is an important culture and value for us too. You have got to play by the rules.
That is for the NRL to sort out.
My job is to run the country. I will leave it to Peter Beattie to run the NRL and I’ll leave it to Flanno and all the boys down there to make sure they are doing the right thing and I'm sure they will have a great win against the Bulldogs this weekend.
Thanks David and it’s great to be here with the Deputy PM who was here, not here, but in other drought-affected areas with the previous PM. Our Government under Malcolm Turnbull and today under me is 100 per cent focused on what we need to do as a nation together to ensure there is not just relief from the drought but recovery from the drought. I’m accompanied also today by Major General Stephen Day who I will speak about in a second.
I particularly want to say thank you to Annabel and Steve for inviting us to your home today.
It’s not just their home today, it’s been their home in the Tully family for five generations. They were here some 10 or 15 years after Burke and Wills went through this strip. This is a long-term generational farming family that we have come to visit today.
The reason I wanted to come to Queensland today was because this is an area that has been dealing with drought not for one year, not for two years - for six years.
I want to show you something Steve just showed me. This property in 2016, just over there, that's what it looked like. This is successful country when it comes to what they've been running for five generations.
This is what we've got to keep in mind because that says hope, that says the future, that says why these communities live here because it is sustainable, it is achievable and it's coming back.
What our challenge is, is to ensure that until it comes back, we do everything we can to ensure that these families, that these communities, that these towns get from now until then. So today… Look, I've been in the job a couple of days. Stephen has been in the job just over a week, so he's not too far ahead of me on this.
The reason I've asked Major General Day to continue on the work that Malcolm Turnbull asked him to start with the Deputy Prime Minister is because we need a national response to what this drought is.
It's not just in New South Wales or Queensland. It's getting in Victoria, isn't it, Bridget?
Bridget is from Victoria. It is getting down there into South Australia. We all needto work together.
I said the other day that I want to have an even stronger Australia that is keeping Australians together.
Now the reason just chatting to some of the families a few minutes ago, that they're able to achieve and show the resilience that they are, not just now but over generations, is because they stay together. We have got to stay together as a country in our support. Governments and the Commonwealth Government have to stay together and work together to ensure that we can give the support that is necessary.
We’ve already got a number of very well-targeted initiatives that are out here.
Rod’s here, where’s the Mayor? He’s around here somewhere. We’re meeting with the Mayors and other Shire representatives this afternoon. One of the things that Prime Minister
Turnbull announced just recently with the DPM was a million dollars for every single Shire Council that was affected by the drought and what that's about is putting money into potentially even the dog fencing we've been talking about or the road programs that they have or fixing up the local library or anything like that that puts money into these towns and into these areas. We can't make it rain but what we can do is ensure that these local economies and regional economies can get from A to B and when B looks exactly like that. Now Major General Day's job is to bring together and to provide us with a plan.
He is listening, then he will plan and then he will act.
That's how we can draw together all of the resources of Commonwealth, state, local governments and the charitable sector, everyone who is out there trying to make a difference to support the situation. That's what Major General Day is doing. That's what he has been tasked with.
It is an enormous task.
I have to give him the time to be able to form his plans, to get the information and ensure that he can bring back to us what we need to do to make this work. Let me make another comment; yesterday when we announced the ministry, I will ask Michael to speak in a second, we talked about the role that Barnaby Joyce would have. Barnaby will provide a connection point between Major General Day and the Government, out there listening to people, providing that feedback directly.
He is not there as the Minister.
He is not there to defend government policy. He's there to hear about what the issues are and to be able to be trusted and faithfully relay that back to us so we can make those decisions.
We need someone to be there who people can talk directly to and then they can make sure we know what we need to do, whether it's Major General Day or it’s Michael or it's I or David or the whole team. Anyway, over to you, Michael.
Stephen wanted to say a couple of things.
Thanks mate, I really appreciate it, and thanks for having us here. It was great to catch up with Hugo, I enjoyed his class. That was a bit of fun, they got a bit of a surprise.
I can assure you I learn something every day! If you don't have that attitude, you never do. So, questions.
What upsets me about that is they don't know what that looks like. While it was only a couple of years ago here, they haven't seen yet what has kept their parents here and their families here for long periods of time. They're here basically on faith from what mum and dad have told them about this lifestyle.
That's what makes me sad about it.
When I was talking to Annabel before, there’s a lot of hardship here, there’s a lot of struggle, they're incredibly resilient people, and they’re not complaining about anything, they're getting on and doing it. Doing a lot. We have looked at innovation, the works they're doing, they're getting on with it, they’re just getting on and doing a lot.
We’ve looked at the innovation, looked at the works they’re doing, they’re just getting on with it.
But when you talk about your kids, it's another matter altogether.
What we need to do isn't just about dog fencing, and all of that's important, but kids still have to go to school and getting kids to school can't be causing stress and heartbreak for parents. So there's no end, it would seem, at the moment to the issues that we have to sort out and coordinate here and that's why Major General Day's job is so important. It's to work across everything from education to human services to coordinating with the States, to my old department in Treasury and the Tax Office and places like that.
It's a whole-of-government response and then working with the States.
I think that's what frustrates people. They look at governments going, "Why aren't you talking to each other?" We are going to try and talk to each other a lot better because that's a big part of the solution, all the governments working together. I spoke to Annastacia Palaszczuk before coming out here today.
We had a good chat about that.
I spoke to Gladys Berejiklian during the course of the week in New South Wales. I was actually talking to Mark McGowan just the other night. They're a long way from the drought but that's where the feed is coming from.
There is a lot of connections on how we deal with that.
For those kids, I want them to see that pasture again.
I don't think people out here care one way or the other whether it's that.
But I care what they think.
I don’t think that’s the issue.
Yeah sure. The person you should be asking is Steve.
Well let's listen to Steve first.
You are talking about right here. I mean we’re talking about… climate is changing, everybody knows that. I know what you're trying to ask, OK? I don't think that's part of this debate.
That's my point.
If people want to have a debate about that, fine. It's not a debate I've participated a lot in in the past because I'm practically interested in the policies that will address what is going on here right and now. I'm interested in getting people's electricity prices down and I'm not terribly interested in engaging in those sorts of debates at this point.
I understand the arguments about all that.
I understand the positions that are held. But practically, it doesn't help me a lot in terms of working out how you make a human services form which is too long and invasive and takes people a lot of time to fill out. That debate doesn't help that form get filled out any sooner and it certainly doesn't help ensuring that you are keeping dogs out of your pasture lands and things like that.
So, I'm going to leave that debate for another day.
Well I’ll give you an example. In my electorate in southern Sydney, you know, I've come from the quarter acre out to 180,000 acres out here - that's a big difference for a start. We had the Kurnell refineries closing down.
They were a big employer in my electorate and that was managed over a period of time.
Now the people that used work there, because we live in a large city, means that they’ve been able to pick up jobs elsewhere in the city. But these economies and these communities don't have those same sort of options. And these communities are providing the food, they’re providing the wool, they’re providing what Australians need.
And, you know, it is different in different parts of the country.
As a result of that, I think that means there's a special responsibility here. Not just to ensure that they can be successful - I'm looking at some of the innovation they've been putting on around this property, but this is a way of life that is important to Australia's future. I want to make sure that way of life continues to be preserved as I know Michael and Bridget and my Liberal colleagues feel the same way.
There has been significant action when it comes to farm household assistance…
We are already providing farm household assistance and Michael and others can speak to other items. There’s a number of things we are doing and we are $1.19 billion in terms of financial assistance that's gone in as part of a drought response over many years now.
It has many components.
The most recent one was the $70 million-odd that was announced for funding grants directly into local councils to ensure those economies could be sustainable. That's incredibly important. So look, where there is a problem and where we think there is a solution that requires that type of support, then you'll do it.
If Major General Day turns up and says, as part of his plan, we need to coordinate financial assistance in this way as opposed to that way, well that's what he is there to tell us and we can respond on that and act on that.
I'm not pretending to come here and suggest we have all the answers to all the problems. I got a great text from Barnaby last night on day one, as you expect, he has given me quite a list of things that he reckons. We're already about that.
I think it's important that the bitterness of years past, not just on our side of politics but on the other side of politics as well. I mean, I've been in this Parliament about the same time as Michael, just a little bit longer, I think, and it's been a pretty tumultuous time. I think Australians would welcome the fact that that period of time is over.
And it should be over.
Australians expect that of their Parliament and I'm pleased that that's the case. The age of bitterness has come to a close and the age of working together and focusing on the future has come.
Tony and I are continuing to talk about the role he can play and, as a former Prime Minister, I want to use his experience, I want to use his insights in an area I know he is deeply passionate about. Just like Michael and I want to ensure that, as former leader of the National Party, we're using Barnaby's skills and experience as part of our Government. He deserves the respect of a full proposal as to what I see his role as and I'll give him the respect of that and we will keep working that through.
Well, I can remember as Treasurer earlier this year, and I remember Michael saying in Cabinet - sorry to breach Cabinet confidence...
Michael was pushing this had to be put on our agenda and what our response was. That had a big impact on me, Michael, and, as you know, we went through a range of packages that went through the budget. Since then, we've been doing the same thing.
I was very involved in that as Treasurer, as Michael knows, and had some pretty strong views about particularly keeping the regional towns and communities going.
They're all little economies. No different to the economy of the Cronulla Mall or out here in Quilpie, they’re little economies that support a lot of people. Now the Cronulla Mall gets support from a much bigger customer base than they do in Quilpie.
You have got to keep the towns going.
The broader farming community around these towns are a huge part. A lot of other things are part of those towns. You have people working at the council everywhere from answering phones to doing accounts to managing programs.
You've got people running small businesses.
A lot of people and a lot of different jobs depend on money continuing to come through these towns.
I have spoken to the Home Affairs Minister, Peter Dutton, and he was a designate at that point when I spoke to him - he has been sworn in now, he is in Brisbane - I should say the Gold Coast - attending the Five Eyes meetings with others there. The vessel, as I understand the briefing that has been provided to me, relates to a fishing vessel and, as a result, that doesn't fall into the category of what I often used to refer to as these illegal vessel arrivals so what we're seeing with that is the usual process kicks in and we'll manage that as we've managed the others but it's a reminder to all Australians, we did stop the boats. I had a significant role to play as part of that under the Abbott Government.
I have had a significant role to play under the Turnbull Government as the Treasurer.
But under my Government, I'll be focusing on all of these things and we can't take the success of our country and the achievements we've had under the Abbott Government and under the Turnbull Government for granted. I mean, these things don't stay fixed. You've got to keep them fixed.
You need to continue to apply the same application, the same strength, the
I've been on a plane for a fair bit of time and I haven't been able to speak to Peter since earlier today. I will be seeking an update later today. I have no doubt about the ability of Peter Dutton to carry on the work which I started many, many years ago and keep the issue right under control.