Great to be on the show.
I think you just said earlier on that it was just, in very recent moments, that Tanya made that comment so, I haven't seen them. But it's a matter of record that Mr Mundine was unsuccessful in convincing the Labor Party, over many years.
Well, I think that there's been a lot of developments, hasn't there? This is not just Labor saying there's a cloud over the eligibility of a senior minister - it's now Malcolm Turnbull, it's now Julie Bishop. The Solicitor-General's advice that the Government relies upon, says that it thinks that it is the better position that Mr Dutton's Constitutionally eligible, but it doesn't give a 100 per cent guarantee and having learnt the hard way myself, you're better removing all ambiguity and submitting it to the High Court.
The Coast Guard makes a daring rescue attempt off the coast of Cape Cod after a pair of oil tankers are destroyed during a blizzard in 1952.
Well that's good he went there, I'm not going to complain about that, that's good he went there. Chloe and I went up to Western Queensland to have a look, I mean the drought has been there for years, it sort of finally got onto the national agenda.
Frederick Abberline is an opium-huffing inspector from Scotland Yard who falls for one of Jack the Ripper's prostitute targets in this Hughes brothers adaption of a graphic novel that posits the Ripper's true identity.
the fabled Bracelet of Anubis. Unfortunately, a newly resurrected Imhotep has designs on the bracelet as well, and isn’t above kidnapping its new bearer, Alex, to gain control of Anubis’s otherworldly army.
I think that is one of the questions of the ages. The member for Manila, but Jason's been our representative in northern Australia so I might get him to talk further.
We want to put forward positive views. Some people say the Government's such a disorganised shambles, just sit back and buy a box of popcorn, but the point is that puts more pressure on us, because people think the system is broken.
We've said that we don't want to see any Commonwealth tax-payer money directly or indirectly go into it, we've seen the missed deadlines, we're sceptics. We've said no taxpayer money should be used in this proposition.
Yes, she and Penny and myself, we think that the time has come to revisit that. What's happened is that over time we've started to provide protection against sex discrimination.
Well, first of all, the Government a few weeks ago said that they wanted to look at how we can break through the encrypted telecommunications of people who are criminals, terrorists and the like. We said that's fair enough.
Because for the last three years, and indeed six years, we have been united. We are putting all our policies out there.
Oh, we don't know that yet. We're working very hard on it.
I’ll come to cheaper in a second, first of all let’s deal with fair, this is the real reason we’re doing it. How is it fair, Barrie, that a couple have to compete to buy their first home with someone who is getting a taxpayer funded handout to buy their sixth or seventh home.
Set in Las Vegas, the film centers on a man who attends his best friend's bachelor party, unaware of an insidious agenda that plays into hunting humans.
A couple with a newborn baby face unexpected difficulties after they are forced to live next to a fraternity house.
Well, we've been doing a lot of hard work in the last five years as a united and stable opposition. We're not willing to face the next election and just rely on the Government's mistakes to get us across the line, our democratic system is too important.
Thank you.
The war against the Bugs continues! A Federation Starship crash-lands on the distant Alien planet OM-1, stranding beloved leader Sky Marshal Anoke and several others, including comely but tough pilot Lola Beck. It's up to Colonel/General Johnny Rico, reluctant hero of the original Bug Invasion on Planet P, to lead a team of Troopers on a daring rescue mission.
As you'd be aware, Labor's been working hard from Opposition to identify how we can improve the bottom line of the Budget. That's why we are going to reform unsustainable tax concessions which principally flow to the very well-off and we want to reuse some of that money not just to pay down debt, not just to give tax refunds to people under $100,000, but we want to invest in passing on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received from our parents.
I think Wentworth is a hard seat for Labor to win. It's a margin of nearly 18 per cent.
Well, I don’t accept that. First of all, the idea that the environment and the economy are two separate planets and separate solar systems is rubbish.
listen, you're the reason why the vote is going to go down. Which wasn't necessarily diplomatic -
I'd welcome an overdue look at the aged care sector in Australia.
Secure within a desolate home as an unnatural threat terrorizes the world, a man has established a tenuous domestic order with his wife and son, but this will soon be put to test when a desperate young family arrives seeking refuge.
And it didn't exist before we got there but I spent a lot of time talking to people with disability and their careers and then we built up a coalition of people who really wanted to see a better deal.
Well what we want to do is create a level playing field, first of all. Why should a pair of first-home buyers, you know supported by their parents, they could be in their late 20s, early 30s.
there is still a man inside the machine.
Jerry, a small-town Minnesota car salesman is bursting at the seams with debt... but he's got a plan. He's going to hire two thugs to kidnap his wife in a scheme to collect a hefty ransom from his wealthy father-in-law. It's going to be a snap and nobody's going to get hurt... until people start dying. Enter Police Chief Marge, a coffee-drinking, parka-wearing - and extremely pregnant - investigator who'll stop at nothing to get her man. And if you think her small-time investigative skills will give the crooks a run for their ransom... you betcha!
During their travel from Chicago to New York, Harry and Sally debate whether or not sex ruins a friendship between a man and a woman. Eleven years later, and they're still no closer to finding the answer.
Sorry, I didn't pluck that out of nowhere. That was the Paris Agreement.
When the girl that detective Joe Hallenback is protecting gets murdered, the boyfriend of the murdered girl attempts to investigate and solve the case. What they discover is that there is deep seated corruption going on between a crooked politician and the owner of a pro football team.
Well first of all, I haven't commented on the polls for the last five years. I think that - and today, it is even more important than ever that we talk about policy.
Anyway, so we get the hypocrisy of the process but today's a good day. It's a year on.
A young man struggles to access sublimated childhood memories. He finds a technique that allows him to travel back into the past, to occupy his childhood body and change history. However, he soon finds that every change he makes has unexpected consequences.
No listen, I've been very lucky with my team in the last five years. I'm on my third Liberal Prime Minister and I think that if you want to look at disunity you've got to look at the Government don't you.
Well whilst I'm not running for Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, especially as Michael Gunner is doing such a good job, gee the new Gunner Government was left with a lot of problems by the outgoing administration, the CLP-run people. You know, the CLP managed to do the double - the daily double.
Yeah, okay.
Whether we’re young or forever young at heart, the Hundred Acre Wood calls to that place in each of us that still believes in magic. Join pals Pooh, Piglet, Kanga, Roo, Owl, Rabbit, Tigger and Christopher Robin as they enjoy their days together and sing their way through adventures.
See you.
Yes, but it is a development. Also there's a Nationals Member of Parliament, perhaps a quiet achiever is what you would call him, Mr Hogan up in Page, and he's said he's going to sit on the crossbench as well.
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson find themselves in 1890s London in this holiday special.
We'll change that when we get into government because I don't agree with that.
Arthur is a spirited ten-year old whose parents are away looking for work, whose eccentric grandfather has been missing for several years, and who lives with his grandmother in a country house that, in two days, will be repossessed, torn down, and turned into a block of flats unless Arthur's grandfather returns to sign some papers and pay off the family debt. Arthur discovers that the key to success lies in his own descent into the land of the Minimoys, creatures no larger than a tooth, whom his grandfather helped relocate to their garden. Somewhere among them is hidden a pile of rubies, too. Can Arthur be of stout heart and save the day? Romance beckons as well, and a villain lurks.
The story of Michael Oher, a homeless and traumatized boy who became an All American football player and first round NFL draft pick with the help of a caring woman and her family
"Dirty" Harry Callahan is a San Francisco Police Inspector on the trail of a group of rogue cops who have taken justice into their own hands. When shady characters are murdered one after another in grisly fashion, only Dirty Harry can stop them.
In a futuristic world where the polar ice caps have melted and made Earth a liquid planet, a beautiful barmaid rescues a mutant seafarer from a floating island prison. They escape, along with her young charge, Enola, and sail off aboard his ship. But the trio soon becomes the target of a menacing pirate who covets the map to 'Dryland' – which is tattooed on Enola's back.
An uproarious version of history that proves nothing is sacred – not even the Roman Empire, the French Revolution and the Spanish Inquisition.
Who, Rupert Murdoch or Kevin Rudd?
Well I think you've got to work on that. We've got to make the kids safe.
I choose to invest in schools and hospitals, reducing the aged care waiting list, making sure people can get apprenticeships, making sure that we can reduce the out-of-pocket costs in Medicare. It's all about choices and you know, we're up for the legitimate debate.
Using a special camera that can see spirits, a family must protect their daughter from an evil entity with a sinister plan.
Tom and Hannah have been platonic friends for 10 years. He's a serial dater, while she wants marriage but hasn't found Mr. Right. Just as Tom is starting to think that he is relationship material after all, Hannah gets engaged. When she asks Tom to be her 'maid' of honor, he reluctantly agrees just so he can attempt to stop the wedding and woo her.
Well there's no doubt that there's lessons federally and you've mentioned a whole range of seats where there was a significant swing to Labor. There was a strong swing to Labor even in my own seat.
Police chief Brody must protect the citizens of Amity after a second monstrous shark begins terrorizing the waters.
The subsidy will be for parents. If your household income is up to $68,000 we will provide a 100 per cent subsidy up to the capped amount of $11.
At the moment they can be north of $10,000, so they're certainly not cheap. Over the life of the battery installation people get the value back.
Of course.
There's a couple of big hypotheticals there aren't there, Lisa. But I'll go to the Adani matter, and then I'll go to jobs in Queensland.
extortion. To achieve his goal, he recruits musclemen Paul and Adrian as accomplices. After several failed attempts, they abduct rich businessman Victor Kershaw and convince him to sign over all his assets to them. But when Kershaw makes it out alive, authorities are reluctant to believe his story.
I have no plans to review the approvals. But if we want to be fair dinkum, let's be fair dinkum and let's tell the voters the truth here, all of us.
While hiding from bullies in his school's attic, a young boy discovers the extraordinary land of Fantasia, through a magical book called The Neverending Story. The book tells the tale of Atreyu, a young warrior who, with the help of a luck dragon named Falkor, must save Fantasia from the destruction of The Nothing.
In a mysterious and remote snowy outpost, Matt and Potter share a Christmas meal, swapping creepy tales of their earlier lives in the outside world, but are both men who they appear to be?
The true story of Marine Corporal Megan Leavey, who forms a powerful bond with an aggressive combat dog, Rex. While deployed in Iraq, the two complete more than 100 missions and save countless lives, until an IED explosion puts their faithfulness to the test.
A young violinist unravels her long lost father's past, triggering dark forces that reach beyond her imagination.
Adam Sandler invites you to share some holiday cheer in the new, no-holds-barred musical comedy Adam Sandler's 8 Crazy Nights. Davey Stone, a 33-year old party animal, finds himself in trouble with the law after his wild ways go too far.
I tell you what, the last Prime Minister or the last leader who worried about the polls, is probably watching this on iView from New York. I don't think it's done me a lot of harm not talking about the polls.
If he kills the king, Draco will die as well.
Yes 
Following a wild night out with his Best Man, Rob Anderson wakes up to find himself naked in an elevator on the morning of his wedding day and is forced to relive the morning over and over again.
They are not correct. There you go, short answer too.
Yeah lovely to talk. And it's going to be great to see some people even though it's marking a tragic event.
I think we are, but I think some of the shenanigans at the top level and the personality conflicts has left people disillusioned, but the way we will get around that is that we'll just go back to a more independent process to pick the senior leadership of the ABC. 
Well we are winding back the negative gearing tax concessions on future houses and we are also making other changes to the system of taxation, which will see that some tax concessions which are given to the top end won't be so generous in the future, and instead we're going to use that money to educate the next generation of Australians.
Yes. I mean, the Prime Minister, you said something that he said which deserves answering and this is the first occasion I've had to answer it since his remarkable press conference.
Seven strangers are taken out of their daily lives and placed mysteriously in a deadly cube where they all agree they must find their way out.
Lovely thank you very much for your interest.
If you don’t start – you are quite right, and what sort of world are we passing on to the next generation? We know this government is paralysed on climate change, and if they weren’t, Malcolm Turnbull would still be the Prime Minister, wouldn’t he?
About a million Australian families will benefit from our initiative on child care. Everywhere I’ve travelled in Australia as Opposition Leader, one of the single biggest problems that people tell me is that everything is going up except their wages and child care is in one of the biggest things which is going up in price.
We do think that Western Australia has had a bad deal in the past, but we've got to make sure that if we legislate to give a better deal to Western Australia, which is what Labor has called for, that we just make sure that no other state is worse off. I think it's very important that Mr Morrison doesn't rush this, what we've got to do is make sure Western Australia gets a proper deal but no other state should be worse off.
It's about time we had the renewables revolution. We're proposing to make it easier for households to buy solar powered batteries.
Well, between five to six years, we've seen the recoup in the solar panels. They'll get cheaper, and also what we'll see is people - do you know,  in the next two or three weeks, Karl, we're going to pass the 2 million household mark who have got solar on the roofs? So, I've got no doubt this is the future and we're going to start steering the nation to the future and work with Aussie families.
Let's just see, and I think it's not just Julie Bishop, to be fair to Ms Bishop. She shouldn't have to carry the can for the whole of the Liberal Party as she's had to.
What's going on in the property market at the moment is the banks are restricting credit. It's unrelated to our policy.
First of all, the election hasn't been held.
So, we're committed to our reforms to make our budget sustainable.
Well, let's sort out population, cost of living, workers’ rights, build a strong economy to make it work in the interest of everyone - 
Only one leader in this country has done a deal with Clive Palmer.
Well, that will be up to the people of Australia, but I think our message is one which resonates. It is the same message that Dan Andrews offered in Victoria - better hospitals, better schools.
Well, there's no doubt that it's going to take a while, but we've got to start. I think renewable energy and climate change is something where the Australian people are so far ahead of the politicians it's not funny.
Found inside a shining stalk of bamboo by an old bamboo cutter and his wife, a tiny girl grows rapidly into an exquisite young lady. The mysterious young princess enthralls all who encounter her - but ultimately she must confront her fate, the punishment for her crime.
Well first of all, just on this issue of grandfathering, you are quite right, when it comes to negative gearing all of the people currently negatively geared will not be affected and you’ll still be able to negatively gear your houses…
The fact that bank said this tells me a couple of things.  It tells me the biggest drop in housing prices has happened under the Coalition Government.
A young couple living in a Connecticut suburb during the mid-1950s struggle to come to terms with their personal problems while trying to raise their two children. Based on a novel by Richard Yates.
Yes, we've got to have more diversity in our media, got to hear more voices, can't just be the same old couple of large media companies in Australia. We've got to have more diversity.
In terms of national security?
This all-female horror anthology features four dark tales from four fiercely talented women.
Lovely, cheerio.
Well, it is certainly easier said than done, but we have got to do it. I don't think most Australians waking up this morning realise that some corporations and some high net wealthy - very wealthy, wealthy individuals are dodging about $5 billion in tax over the next ten years by basically going to tax havens.
I think there's a lot more water to go under the bridge but the real issue here in terms of Australians and why it matters to the everyday voter, is that you have the Minister for Home Affairs, a very important person, making very important decisions, there shouldn't be any Constitutional cloud over his eligibility to make those decisions, and I think that the Government needs to just clear the issue up.
Well, it has caused havoc and some can argue the rule is outmoded but it wouldn't be my immediate priority. I think politicians just need to get their house in order and get their eligibility sorted out.
Yes it is disappointing Lisa. It's not the way the arrangements are meant to work.
When this government, when the current Prime Minister was the loyal Treasurer, of the previous Prime Minister - if you believe that I've got a bridge to sell you - but anyway, when the Prime Minister was the Treasurer, when the current Treasurer was the former Environment Minister and when Malcolm Turnbull was still on top, they said the National Energy Guarantee would deliver $550 in lower household prices on energy. The numbers we're using, are the numbers the experts are given, they're the publicly available numbers, and they're in some cases, Malcolm Turnbull's own numbers.
Oh back in the 80s mate, but neither government has managed to produce a surplus - the Coalition hasn't managed to produce a surplus since they've been in power this time around.
My preference is questions from the audience, just direct. The media, of course, should be invited, they can film the interplay.
Of course we want people to get off the dole and get a job. But you know, this sort of simple view that you either starve people in order to make them get off the dole, it's just not as straightforward as that.
Undercover Las Vegas police officer Vincent Downs is caught in a high stakes web of corrupt cops and the mob-controlled casino underground. When a heist goes wrong, a crew of homicidal gangsters kidnaps Downs’ teenage son. In one sleepless night he will have to rescue his son, evade an internal affairs investigation and bring the kidnappers to justice.
Well, far be it from me to judge the Turnbull legacy but I think that this is another opportunity that he missed. I do think that we need a national anti-corruption commission, so I give a tick to my colleagues in the Labor Party for pushing that.
Nada, a wanderer without meaning in his life, discovers a pair of sunglasses capable of showing the world the way it truly is. As he walks the streets of Los Angeles, Nada notices that both the media and the government are comprised of subliminal messages meant to keep the population subdued, and that most of the social elite are skull-faced aliens bent on world domination. With this shocking discovery, Nada fights to free humanity from the mind-controlling aliens.
A newly possessed cheerleader turns into a killer who specializes in offing her male classmates. Can her best friend put an end to the horror?
Yes, we will, we will support boat turn backs where it's safe to do so, which is existing policy.  
Yeah you're right, we did want to see it but the problem is Mr Turnbull couldn't even bring it to the Parliament and we encouraged him to, we thought this was a good thing to do but this is the big problem in Australia and I didn't want to talk too much about my opponents. But the Liberal Party in Australia has lost the ability to say anything other than no.
Babe is a little pig who doesn't quite know his place in the world. With a bunch of odd friends, like Ferdinand the duck who thinks he is a rooster and Fly the dog he calls mom, Babe realizes that he has the makings to become the greatest sheep pig of all time, and Farmer Hogget knows it. With the help of the sheep dogs Babe learns that a pig can be anything that he wants to be.
Listen, our immigration is one issue but let's talk about the failure of politics. The reason why I went back in detail to the history of an outer ring railway in Melbourne is we've been debating this for 130 years - that's the failure of politics.
That's our aim and the point about it, but just to come to that, we do need to see what numbers the Government have got. I know people get sick of politics but this Government is going to bring down a Budget on April 2 and then rush off to an election.
Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt return as heads of the Baker family who, while on vacation, find themselves in competition with a rival family of eight children, headed by Eugene Levy,
Well it’s a matter of priorities. This is the truth in Australia at the moment.
The parents of a soon-to-be married couple make the final preparations for the wedding ceremony.
Well if I can put it really directly, do people want a government or do they want a piece of plasticine. Do people want a government with tax principles and fairness at their core or do they just want  a lump of political putty.
Listen, I don't want to get into a debate about the facts, but your last statement is 100 per cent wrong. We've made it clear that any pensioner who's in receipt of a part pension is not affected by our changes, so you can't say - I mean, you can, but it's just not right, when you say that pensioners are going to be affected, that's just not correct.
Well, sorry, no, it’s actually been shown that over time when you pay for less petrol, it actually costs less. But I agree, at the moment the models are expensive, but this isn’t all about what happens next week and it’s not all about trying to take someone’s ute off them.
Because I've never forgotten the men I met there and their families, never forgotten them. They taught me a lot about resilience.
A tough Russian policeman is forced to partner up with a cocky Chicago police detective when he is sent to Chicago to apprehend a Georgian drug lord who killed his partner and fled the country.
dodgeball. Aided by a dodgeball guru and Goodman's attorney, La Fleur and his rag-tag team of underdogs launch a knock-down, drag-out battle in which the winner takes all.
Three detectives in the corrupt and brutal L.A. police force of the 1950s use differing methods to uncover a conspiracy behind the shotgun slayings of the patrons at an all-night diner.
Ms McGowan has always said she's concerned about all of the people in detention, not just the kids. But I’m not going to put any more pressure on her, I’ll leave that to the government.
I'll certainly be watching Four Corners and I thought one of your panellist's comments that maybe the Government was anticipating a pretty tough story, I'll be watching that.
Listen I'm not going to get - sorry, there's only one person who has ever been resurrected and I'm not going to compare Clive Palmer to him. The point about it is, I'm not going to get distracted by Clive Palmer.
I don't have that view. I have made the practice over five years now of not commenting on the polls - good, bad or indifferent.
Well all of the research we've seen and the evidence - between 60 and 90 per cent, I mean you heard that right. I don't own shares in a battery company or a solar company, I'm just interested in getting household power bills down.
In a dystopian near future, single people, according to the laws of The City, are taken to The Hotel, where they are obliged to find a romantic partner in forty-five days or are transformed into beasts and sent off into The Woods.
Absolutely we do, and I certainly think the decision -  because it should be for the new government whoever they are, Liberal or Labor 
See you guys. Thank you.
It will work cooperatively and constructively. I always had the view, back from my days representing workers in negotiations with employers, that no one has got a monopoly on having all the good ideas.
Thank you very much.
No, that wouldn't be right. What we want to do is have real change, because, frankly, more of the same under this government isn't good enough for Australians -
We're going to stick to our existing policies. It's just not fair for our younger generation to not be able to afford their first home when the Government of the day is giving a tax subsidy to property investors to buy their fifth or sixth.
One thousand years after cataclysmic events forced humanity's escape from Earth, Nova Prime has become mankind's new home. Legendary General Cypher Raige returns from an extended tour of duty to his estranged family, ready to be a father to his 13-year-old son, Kitai. When an asteroid storm damages Cypher and Kitai's craft, they crash-land on a now unfamiliar and dangerous Earth. As his father lies dying in the cockpit, Kitai must trek across the hostile terrain to recover their rescue beacon. His whole life, Kitai has wanted nothing more than to be a soldier like his father. Today, he gets his chance.
An extraordinarily intelligent young girl from a cruel and uncaring family discovers she possesses telekinetic powers and is sent off to a school headed by a tyrannical principal.
Cheers.
Yes, I was pleased. I was pleased for the work of Dan Andrews and his team, nothing should take way from their success.
Cal Weaver is living the American dream. He has a good job, a beautiful house, great children and a beautiful wife, named Emily. Cal's seemingly perfect life unravels, however, when he learns that Emily has been unfaithful and wants a divorce. Over 40 and suddenly single, Cal is adrift in the fickle world of dating. Enter, Jacob Palmer, a self-styled player who takes Cal under his wing and teaches him how to be a hit with the ladies.
Oh no I don’t accept that, I accept that what we are doing is creating fairness.
Of course not. I just thought it was wrong and so, that was only a tiny taste.
Politicians out, independent transparent process in.
Oh Hamish, I think there is a little bit of excitement in your heart, you just need to find it. Only a little though, let's not really debate that.
I don’t think any of us that extreme weather events are getting less frequent, are they?
I've tried to ring her to find out what she meant but I think to be fair to Labor her comments have come after the last week of Liberal infighting. I do think that anyone who is feeling bullied has a right to a safe workplace.
First of all, there's what happens before an election. I don't know, Barrie, I think that a lot of people think that despite the press releases coming out of Adani, there's more hype than substance - and history would tend to indicate that.
Well, you know and I know, Fran, that if we don't have the numbers, it can't be done. But what that means in the meantime is that we're jeopardising the authority's cases against 16,000 people - many of whom are alleged to be criminals from us being able to take action.
I will let the review look at all of those issues, that is a legitimate issue. I think that some conservatives say that you should only be temporarily unemployed therefore keep it low and that way it gives incentive for people to get off it, but I don't think keeping it so low actually achieves anything other than is unfair to people very down on their luck.
Well, the Government is playing catch up with Labor in terms of putting more money back into the Catholic schools system.
A dramatic thriller based on the incredible true David vs. Goliath story of American immigrant Dr. Bennet Omalu, the brilliant forensic neuropathologist who made the first discovery of CTE, a football-related brain trauma, in a pro player and fought for the truth to be known. Omalu's emotional quest puts him at dangerous odds with one of the most powerful institutions in the world.
Well, you'd have to say that we're on board somewhat reluctantly. There are some positives in this arrangement, no doubt.
6-year-old Susan Walker has doubts about childhood's most enduring miracle—Santa Claus. Her mother told her the 'secret' about Santa a long time ago, but, after meeting a special department store Santa who's convinced he's the real thing, Susan is given the most precious gift of all—something to believe in.
After defeating Frieza, Goku returns to Earth and goes on a camping trip with Gohan and Krillin. Everything is normal until Cooler - Frieza's brother - sends three henchmen after Goku. A long fight ensues between our heroes and Cooler, in which he transforms into the fourth stage of his evolution and has the edge in the fight... until Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan.
We will once we have announced all of our policies. That will be very soon.
On the run in the year 1987, Bumblebee finds refuge in a junkyard in a small Californian beach town. Charlie, on the cusp of turning 18 and trying to find her place in the world, discovers Bumblebee, battle-scarred and broken.  When Charlie revives him, she quickly learns this is no ordinary yellow VW bug.
I think you'd be fair enough to acknowledge that then, Adani didn't get the finance but now they appear to have got the finance. The other thing of course back then is they were talking about a 60 million tonne mine with 10,000 jobs.
That's an issue for a plebiscite. 
That's alright.
When a madman dubbed 'Scorpio' terrorizes San Francisco, hard-nosed cop, Harry Callahan – famous for his take-no-prisoners approach to law enforcement – is tasked with hunting down the psychopath. Harry eventually collars Scorpio in the process of rescuing a kidnap victim, only to see him walk on technicalities. Now, the maverick detective is determined to nail the maniac himself.
Nicky, a veteran con artist, takes a novice named Jess under his wing. While Nicky teaches Jess the tricks of the trade, the pair become romantically involved; but, when Jess gets uncomfortably close, Nicky ends their relationship. Three years later, Nicky is in Buenos Aires working a very dangerous scheme when Jess -- now an accomplished femme fatale -- unexpectedly shows up. Her appearance throws Nicky for a loop at a time when he cannot afford to be off his game.
Well, I've got a general rule in life that you’re always better talking than having a standoff. It would be better if the leaders turned up.
Yes, let's do that, Leigh. That would be great.
Well I  think that successive governments over the decades have tried to tackle this issue of big cities being overcrowded. How do we get immigrants to go to the bush? Now, what I have said to Scott Morrison is, let's take this issue out of the political colosseum, the political bear-pit, let's work together.
The thing giving people smuggler's the best encouragement in 2018 is the constant billboard which the Government do when they say, oh if Labor gets elected, which is possible at the next election, they are egging the people smuggler's on to try their hand again. It is the Government who constantly say "oh well, if it's not us then the people smugglers will be back in business.
We had a bus long before Scott had it, and we've even been on the bus!
After a mysterious global crisis, a young girl is left alone to hide from a malevolent power that stalks her home. Her parents eventually return and the struggle begins to save their daughter.
Yeah, and I said I'd come to that issue. I said there are two issues.
BSAA Chris Redfield enlists the help of government agent Leon S. Kennedy and Professor Rebecca Chambers from Alexander Institute of Biotechnology to stop a death merchant with a vengeance from spreading a deadly virus in New York.
No, I'm not obsessed by the polls. I've never thought that the election was a foregone conclusion.
That's where the political debate should be - the best ideas 
We are up for reviewing it and we want to review it positively. 
High School student David Lightman (Matthew Broderick) has a talent for hacking. But while trying to hack into a computer system to play unreleased video games, he unwittingly taps into the Defense Department's war computer and initiates a confrontation of global proportions! Together with his girlfriend (Ally Sheedy) and a wizardly computer genius (John Wood), David must race against time to outwit his opponent...and prevent a nuclear Armageddon.
I'm confident, based on the economic reforms that we've engaged in in Opposition, that we will a very positive position on surplus over the four years, and a much better position than the Liberals over the 10 years, because we're winding back unsustainable tax subsidies at the top end, which in fact the Government want to keep.
It will be a matter for the legal system to proceed, he should receive the support any other Australian citizens should receive, the matter is going before court so I don't think there is much more I can add.
Actually, first things first - I am not going to spend my time bagging the current Prime Minister. What I would say, is focus on properly funding the schools and the hospitals.
Well a good analogy I've always used because when I was a union rep sometimes we'd have to have change in workplaces was quite often  I saw corporate leaders say to everyone - use the analogy of a railway station - you're at railway station A and the corporate leaders would say righto to the workforce, you've got to get to railway station B. 
When the evil wizard Gargamel chases the tiny blue Smurfs out of their village, they tumble from their magical world and into ours -- in fact, smack dab in the middle of Central Park. Just three apples high and stuck in the Big Apple, the Smurfs must find a way to get back to their village before Gargamel tracks them down.
There's a point of difference but not the one he's claiming to make. I think after five years this Government should be ashamed of the fact that there are still people on Manus and Nauru and they haven't been resettled.
After proving himself on the field of battle in the French and Indian War, Benjamin Martin wants nothing more to do with such things, preferring the simple life of a farmer. But when his son Gabriel enlists in the army to defend their new nation, America, against the British, Benjamin reluctantly returns to his old life to protect his son.
Well I don't buy what you are selling there, but I will go to this point, I did say that I don't comment on polls - good or bad, but if Mr Morrison, if he thinks that he is doing really well at the moment go and ask his Victorian colleagues. Georgie, what matters is elections and I think on Saturday we saw a big tick for Dan Andrews but also Labor's brand - backing in the schools, backing in the hospitals, getting on with the job not the cuts, the chaos, the division, the scare tactics.
Well, I've known Scott Ryan for some period of time. He is a very sort of sensible considered Liberal.
But we got the right outcome. That day, in front of the State Library was awesome.
Slightly disturbed and painfully shy Angela Baker is sent away to summer camp with her cousin. Not long after Angela's arrival, things start to go horribly wrong for anyone with sinister or less than honorable intentions.
Well, some people say that to me. But with the division and the instability of the government, the fact that the Liberals sacked Malcolm Turnbull nine weeks ago, then they have got to send him to Bali to clean up the new Prime Minister's foreign policy mess, the chaos has got to end.
Yes, I understand that linkage. But what I want to make clear and they are two separate issues.
Up to $2000, yeah.
I'd say that my view on this mine is going to be based on the best science, whether or not it stacks up, and if it is, if it stacks up and passes all the scientific tests, I won't engage in sovereign risk. So in other words we won't arbitrarily upend things.
An eternal romantic falls in love with the girl his father has decided to get him married to, but will his past love affair prove to be a problem?
Well he already is and this is the real heart of the issue. When you get an income tax credit, when you haven't paid income tax, it's a gift from the Government.
Sorry just to correct, when you say controversial, some in the property industry don't like negative gearing changes but a lot of people actually do like it.
Well we've had plenty of administrative heads of the Labor Party who haven't ended up in Parliament. The point about it, in answering your question is that he wasn't able to convince the Labor Party to back him, and it's a free country, if he wants to run for any party, I guess being in a party, that's up to him who he chooses, if he wants to change his views.
But we don't take this election for granted at all. 
Yeah, I accept that some of the unions would rather that we handled it in a different way –
I'd say that's wrong. Our position's very clear.
An Israeli counterterrorism soldier with a secretly fabulous ambition to become a Manhattan hairstylist. Zohan's desire runs so deep that he'll do anything -- including faking his own death and going head-to-head with an Arab cab driver -- to make his dreams come true.
Let's go to Citibank, they're an internationally reputable bank. They say that the consequences in terms of cost, of policies on climate change like ours are immaterial.
Cab driver Max picks up a man who offers him $600 to drive him around. But the promise of easy money sours when Max realizes his fare is an assassin.
Well, if they have a surplus we think this is a good thing but it's because there's increased taxation on companies. The Government can take some pleasure from the surplus but the reason why we will have a surplus is because Australian corporations are paying more company tax.
The infamous story of Benjamin Barker, a.k.a Sweeney Todd, who sets up a barber shop down in London which is the basis for a sinister partnership with his fellow tenant, Mrs. Lovett. Based on the hit Broadway musical.
A young boy whose parents just divorced finds an unlikely friend and mentor in the misanthropic, bawdy, hedonistic, war veteran who lives next door.
Well I have to let the Caucus members have a say, I don't run a top-down organisation, but I think personally Pat Dodson is an outstanding Australian, an outstanding West Australian. I personally approached him to run for the Senate and you know any room that he is in everyone else in the room always feel a bit better because he is such a significant father of reconciliation.
We will do that closer to the election but suffice to say we have done our maths and we are able to pay for the promises we are making. Once we have revealed all of our promises, then we will reveal the costings to back it up.
Hope so, see you.
We want to try and get things done in the Parliament - that's why we're going to keep pushing for a national anti-corruption commission. Labor supports having a national anti-corruption commission.
Well, I just hope that the treating medical advice gets taken seriously. You know, there have been some children coming here anyway.
Yeah, sure. 
Oh no you're right. It was five years ago and eight years ago and we've learned our lesson though.
Well, first of all, it's publicly available, now if we're saying, the campaign against climate change by this government is malicious and stupid. It's malicious because there are elements of this government, the right wing, who have undermined even people in the Liberal Party to take action on climate change, and whenever we talk about common sense on climate change, you just get a scare campaign run by the more extreme elements - just hang on- this is really important, cause climate change is an important issue in this election, and it's a malicious campaign by this government.
No. And let's just be clear on that.
It's not a simple yes or no issue. If we can take people in based upon our infrastructure, based upon the moving to the regions that's a plus.
I don't know if he is back from Bali yet, with the old mop, cleaning up Mr Morrison's problems. But no, I'm going trick or treating.
We're up for that. I mean people are sick of just the negativity.
Well I made the decision, when they first proposed having the plebiscite I thought it was the wrong process, I thought it was an abdication of leadership but then I thought why on earth should we let some Australians go through this process on their own. And so that's why we decided to strongly encourage participation because we couldn't leave people on their own.
A group of students become trapped inside a mysterious cave where they discover time passes differently underground than on the surface.
In danger of losing his business, Anthony Roca, an ordinary man, develops a scam that will become the heist of the century. Overtaken by the crime, he will have to deal with betrayal, murder and settling.
Well I don't hold the children responsible for the mistakes of their parents. You know I don't know all the circumstances but I can understand why a grandmother wants to see her grandchildren safe at home.
Six years have elapsed since Guantanamo Bay, leaving Harold and Kumar estranged from one another with very different families, friends and lives. But when Kumar arrives on Harold's doorstep during the holiday season with a mysterious package in hand, he inadvertently burns down Harold's father-in-law's beloved Christmas tree. To fix the problem, Harold and Kumar embark on a mission through New York City to find the perfect Christmas tree, once again stumbling into trouble at every single turn.
Well the Government sets great store on these matters. It is important we have secure borders but the irony of a boat arriving whilst the former Immigration Minister was competing against the current Home Affairs Minister is not lost on anyone I think.
There couldn't have been anyone who was committing me to a preference deal. No, not aware of that.
Well I actually think that people want to look beyond the next opinion poll to what are we going to do for them and their families. The reason why I want to be Prime Minister Monique, is I want Australia to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received from our parents.
Kit, a troubled girl, is sent to the exclusive Blackwood boarding school, where she discovers that only four other female students have been admitted to learn the four pillars of knowledge under the ominous wing of the mysterious headmistress Madame Duret.
Well, fair's fair. In the six years that the current government have been in, Labor has been united.
A tormented jazz musician finds himself lost in an enigmatic story involving murder, surveillance, gangsters, doppelgangers, and an impossible transformation inside a prison cell.
OK let's go through each of those three points very briefly. There is a cost to Australian business when wage earners are experiencing wage stagnation.
A look behind the scenes at Bernie Madoff's massive Ponzi scheme, how it was perpetrated on the public and the trail of destruction it left in its wake, both for the victims and Madoff's family.
You've got to tell people where they fit in. Change is not too hard but you do have to make sure that you don't leave people behind.
Rachel Keller must prevent evil Samara from taking possession of her son's soul.
No the deal has to stack up on its own merits. I do not support putting a single dollar of taxpayer money into this project.
Well first of all, the issue of climate change has been getting away from Australia for the last ten years. The people of Australia are fed up with politics.
we are grandfathering our proposals. Most people don't know quite what grandfathering means.
A naive young man assumes a dead man's identity and finds himself embroiled in an underground world of power, violence, and chance where men gamble behind closed doors on the lives of other men.
Based on the classic novel by Orson Scott Card, Ender's Game is the story of the Earth's most gifted children training to defend their homeplanet in the space wars of the future.
Well what we can do is we can make sure that if we are going to provide some support for the wages of early childhood educators, again we will say to the operators if Labor is providing some modest improvement in the wages of childhood educators, if Labor is providing a couple of thousand dollars a year for parents, what we say to the childcare operators is you don't get to pocket that. We want childcare to be sustainable, we want cost of living to be tackled and we want to see that the people working in the industry get a fair deal.
Well, first of all let's look at where the house prices have fallen. They've fallen under this government.
our tax system is making it harder for our young ones, our millennials, the younger people to be able to even buy their first home. We have got to start creating a level playing field.
Well, but are they Jon when you think about the issue that Australians haven't voted for Scott Morrison. In fact, I think Mr Morrison owes the Australian people a detailed explanation of why last week happened.
I'm not going to give the Government a blank cheque. We need to see what their final distribution recommendation is to the States.
A paranoia-fueled action thriller about an unsuccessful writer whose life is transformed by a top-secret "smart drug" that allows him to use 100% of his brain and become a perfect version of himself. His enhanced abilities soon attract shadowy forces that threaten his new life in this darkly comic and provocative film.
Rodney Copperbottom is a young robot inventor who dreams of making the world a better place, until the evil Ratchet takes over Big Weld Industries. Now, Rodney's dreams – and those of his friends – are in danger of becoming obsolete.
Well, the Solicitor General's advice that they had, that broadly said that the better view that the Solicitor-General thought was that Mr Joyce was eligible, but they didn't give that categorical assurance and that's the same here. The Solicitor-General is saying that, listen, they think that Minister Dutton is okay, but I wouldn't want to be trying to get a bank loan based on the certainty of that advice of the Solicitor General.
No, not at all. There is still another perhaps up to five months before the election.
we won't be spending as a company director, money chasing votes when they need to go to repay the taxpayers and the workers what they are owed to begin with. It's about priorities.
Well, prices go up and prices go down. It really depends if you're trying to buy or sell a house.
The story of a young man who arrives in Hollywood during the 1930s hoping to work in the film industry, falls in love, and finds himself swept up in the vibrant café society that defined the spirit of the age.
Set in the Depression-era Franklin County, Virginia, a bootlegging gang is threatened by authorities who want a cut of their profits.
That's right.
Seen-it-all New York detective Frank Keller is unsettled - he has done twenty years on the force and could retire, and he hasn't come to terms with his wife leaving him for a colleague. Joining up with an officer from another part of town to investigate a series of murders linked by the lonely hearts columns he finds he is getting seriously and possibly dangerously involved with Helen, one of the main suspects.
We will only ever give you facts - important facts. 
We're certainly more progressive than the current government in Canberra. Listen, I'll let our actions speak for ourselves rather than me put tags on how we will be as a government, my aim is to get elected first but what I can promise Australians is for example, if you've got a three or four year old we'll make sure they get access to kindergarten for free.
Well first of all, full credit to Daniel Andrews and the State Labor Government. They submitted their record and got a renewed mandate, a bigger mandate, so nothing takes away from that.
A fairy tale love-story about pre-med student Paige who falls in love with a Danish Prince "Eddie" who refused to follow the traditions of his parents and has come to the US to quench his thirst for rebellion. Paige and Edward come from two different worlds, but there is an undeniable attraction between them.
So I've had a day off the bus and I'll go back on the bus on Monday.
We will have a good look at them. We have backed 15 sets of changes.
Oh yes.
Look forward to it, cheerio.
A college-age brother and sister get more than they bargained for on their road trip home from spring break. When the bickering siblings witness a creepy truck driver tossing body bags into a sewer near an abandoned church, they investigate. Bad move! Opening a Pandora's Box of unspeakable evil, the pair must flee for their lives -- with a monstrous "shape" in hot pursuit.
Not at all, it depends if you want federal tax money or not. 
The problem with what you're saying is that you assume that there's no cost to doing nothing, and there is. That's why Australians wants real change at this election.
Well, the fact of the matter is we are arguing for a change in Australia. We don't want to - I mean, I think this Government is disgraceful in that they are offering a thread-bare policy agenda.
The Nazis, exasperated at the number of escapes from their prison camps by a relatively small number of Allied prisoners, relocates them to a high-security 'escape-proof' camp to sit out the remainder of the war. Undaunted, the prisoners plan one of the most ambitious escape attempts of World War II. Based on a true story.
A high school swim champion with a troubled past enrolls in the U.S. Coast Guard's 'A' School, where legendary rescue swimmer, Ben Randall teaches him some hard lessons about loss, love, and self-sacrifice.
I think there is a bit of a difference there Baz. First of all, what we are saying is that in workplace relations, just one set of laws.
Any questions about this or other matters?
I always enjoy talking to you guys. 
Yeah, but do you know what? For the last six years we have been debating the Liberals. We are talking to the people.
That will be up to the Australian people, Georgie but if I am, I won't let you or the Australian people down. We're going to focus on the people, not on ourselves.
If you're asking me to specify what a particular company in a particular factory will have to do, I can't do that, nor could you, nor can the Government. 
Hang on, you have five questions there. Let's do them one at a time.
There comes a point in everyone’s life when you have to make a decision about the direction you’re going to take. For newly-18 American fashion model Cora, that time is now. She’s moved to an Australian coastal town to be with her favourite aunt, after a 'fashion faux pas’ back home.
Steve Ford is a private detective in Venice Beach, Calif., who's good with the ladies, bad with the punches and wild about his dog Buddy. When local thugs steal Buddy, Ford turns to Spyder, their devious leader, and forges an unlikely alliance. With help from his best friend, Steve pulls out the big guns to retrieve Spyder's stolen cash and cocaine and save Buddy.
A long-lost music producer finds a singer-songwriter right about the moment he has given up all hope on life.
Let's say it as it is, the Australian people are so far ahead of the politicians on renewable energy it's not a joke but what I am going to do if we get elected is we're backing renewables, we're backing the batteries, we want people to get between a 60 and 90 per cent reduction off their household bills. That's what you get over the lifetime of installing batteries and solar.
Being one of 101 takes its toll on Patch, who doesn't feel unique. When he's accidentally left behind on moving day, he meets his idol, Thunderbolt, who enlists him on a publicity campaign.
No, that doesn't mean that people never talk to me but listen I think that what we've got to do is - the media plays an important role, people are entitled to their opinions.
A Muslim ambassador exiled from his homeland, Ahmad ibn Fadlan finds himself in the company of Vikings. While the behavior of the Norsemen initially offends ibn Fadlan, the more cultured outsider grows to respect the tough, if uncouth, warriors. During their travels together, ibn Fadlan and the Vikings get word of an evil presence closing in, and they must fight the frightening and formidable force, which was previously thought to exist only in legend.
It won't have an appreciable impact on the price of housing.
I can understand why Malcolm might say that but I have to say when you're Labor and you deal with some of the critique in the media you don't let it distract you from what's important.
I think he should receive consular assistance beyond that, I don't know all the facts of the matter and he should deserve the ability to be able to represent it in court which he will be.
I think we're competitive but we're not arrogant. When I come to Western Australia I don't look at Liberal Western Australians and Labor Western Australians or you know, Independent Western Australians - I just see Western Australians.
Well, we'd have to see the numbers and decide if we wanted to do that. But in light of this announcement, let me just say, I think Dan Andrews is on the right track -
When Sarah Marshall dumps aspiring musician Peter Bretter for rock star Aldous Snow, Peter's world comes crashing down. His best friend suggests that Peter should get away from everything and to fly off to Hawaii to escape all his problems. After arriving in Hawaii and meeting the beautiful Rachel Jansen, Peter is shocked to see not only Aldous Snow in Hawaii, but also Sarah Marshall.
A Victorian surgeon rescues a heavily disfigured man being mistreated by his "owner" as a side-show freak. Behind his monstrous façade, there is revealed a person of great intelligence and sensitivity. Based on the true story of Joseph Merrick (called John Merrick in the film), a severely deformed man in 19th century London.
Oscar Diggs, a small-time circus illusionist and con-artist, is whisked from Kansas to the Land of Oz where the inhabitants assume he's the great wizard of prophecy, there to save Oz from the clutches of evil.
A wife questions her life choices as she travels to Stockholm with her husband, where he is slated to receive the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Well first of all you know that we’ve offered Channel Nine the opportunity to do it through the Press Club. You have declined.
Nothing at all, all I'm saying is that when we talk about fiscal management what happens in Australia is that it's not the politicians who drive for good fiscal outcomes in Australia it is the companies, it's the people who go to work. 
Well, you keep going on cost. I want to say to you let's get this straight.
Thank you. In terms of the treatment of the children on Nauru, I have been watching very carefully what the AMA have been saying.
No. You know I did the shopping today in Moonee Ponds where I live and people were saying bring on the Federal Election, and some people would say that Labor has it in the bag, Idon't think that at all.
In this animated retelling of the story from the Bible's Book of Genesis, Joseph's gift of dream interpretation and his brilliantly colored coat inspires jealousy in his brothers.
A former Secret Service agent grudgingly takes an assignment to protect a pop idol who's threatened by a crazed fan. At first, the safety-obsessed bodyguard and the self-indulgent diva totally clash. But before long, all that tension sparks fireworks of another sort, and the love-averse tough guy is torn between duty and romance.
Well he couldn't even bring it to the Parliament.
In 2019, Lincoln Six-Echo is a resident of a seemingly "Utopian" but contained facility. Like all of the inhabitants of this carefully-controlled environment, Lincoln hopes to be chosen to go to The Island — reportedly the last uncontaminated location on the planet. But Lincoln soon discovers that everything about his existence is a lie.
In an attempt to free himself from a state of forgotten limbo, evil dream-demon Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) devises a plan to manipulate un-dead mass murderer Jason Voorhees (Ken Kirzenger) into slicing-and-dicing his way through the teenage population of Springwood.  But when the master of dreams loses control of his monster, a brutal fight to the death is the only way out in this long anticipated crossover between two of modern horror's most notorious killers!
An  U.S. Spaceship lands on a desolate planet, stranding astronaut Taylor in a world dominated by apes, 2000 years into the future, who use a primitive race of humans for experimentation and sport. Soon Taylor finds himself among the hunted, his life in the hands of a benevolent chimpanzee scientist.
A woman turns to prescription medication as a way of handling her anxiety concerning her husband's upcoming release from prison.
Well, we'll be pursuing it. It really depends on what sort of pressure the government has brought on the crossbenchers.
Yes it's good. It's really good.
Thanks guys.
No. Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand, the Labour Prime Minister there, went to a series of countries on provisions which a conservative government had signed up to, and executed letters with those countries and both countries agreed not to go ahead with that.
It's always possible to get airtime if you're willing to say silly things but if you want to have a strong, sensible, centrist debate and this is what Mr Turnbull perhaps missed the opportunity to do, he came in with a lot of good will, is you have to lead but you can lead from the centre. You don't have to say extreme things to get things done.
No. What we're going to do is prioritise, and I'll give you the key features of what we're doing.
A getaway driver for a bank robbery realizes he has been double crossed and races to find out who betrayed him.
Well, maybe - but he hasn't moved to embassy either, so - 
No, no, hang on, Leigh. You keep characterising my policies -
Fairness. We think that Australia Day is about Australian values.
No, no. Let's -
Mind you, I didn't think they'd roll Malcolm, so what would I know. 
Sorry what was the last bit of your question?
Mowgli has been living in the man-village with his little stepbrother Ranjan and his best friend Shanti. But the man-cub still has that jungle rhythm in his heart, and he misses his old buddies Baloo and Bagheera. When Mowgli wanders back to the wild for some swingin' fun, he soon finds the man-eating tiger Shere Khan is lurking in the shadows and planning his revenge.
The action-packed and captivating tale of Dee Renjie's beginnings in the Imperial police force. His very first case, investigating reports of a sea monster terrorizing the town, reveals a sinister conspiracy of treachery and betrayal, leading to the highest reaches of the Imperial family.
First of all, the first conversation I had for him was to thank him for his service to the nation. I've spoken to former Prime Ministers Rudd and Gillard, I've spoken to John Howard on occasion, I've spoken to Tony Abbott.
I think it is a range, I don't think it's one stereotype at all. You get people who are older who, the factory closes, they are thrown all of a sudden on the scrap heap and told they are not worth something.
In terms of the commercial high jump bar, yeah they've passed that.
Perhaps if you bear with me for a moment, I'll answer your question. 
And did you know since then - what is it? 5,420 marriages have occurred. That's good.
A young soldier faces profound disillusionment in the soul-destroying horror of World War I. Together with several other young German soldiers, he experiences the horrors of war, such evil of which he had not conceived of when signing up to fight. They eventually become sad, tormented, and confused of their purpose.
To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate believes three year old child care is a political conspiracy. To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate is a supporting a 12 per cent corporate tax rate, which is a massive tax cut for the big end of town.
When Russia's first nuclear submarine malfunctions on its maiden voyage, the crew must race to save the ship and prevent a nuclear disaster.
I enjoyed the debate.
We can legislate to restore the penalty rates on Sundays and public holidays that have been cut. We can also put in place measures which will encourage closing the gender pay gap.
Well, let’s go back to this. When you give a tax credit to someone who is not paying income tax, that is a gift.
Well no, Fran, what I'm not going to do is engage in that debate. But what I'll say to you, Fran, is if the Liberal Party thinks that on Monday, as we approach the last two weeks of Parliament, they're doing really well - well then, I've got a bridge over the mouth of Yarra I want to sell 'em.
Julian, who runs a Thai boxing club as a front organization for his family's drug smuggling operation, is forced by his mother Crystal to find and kill the individual responsible for his brother's recent death.
We haven't finalised our position, but I think that the unions and indeed a lot of people from the Reserve Bank onwards, are all saying that everything is going up in Australia except wages. The system is not working in that what is happening is that corporate profits are going up, some people are doing very well thank you very much.
Young Shakespeare is forced to stage his latest comedy, "Romeo and Ethel, the Pirate's Daughter," before it's even written. When a lovely noblewoman auditions for a role, they fall into forbidden love -- and his play finds a new life (and title). As their relationship progresses, Shakespeare's comedy soon transforms into tragedy.
It is up to them. 
The Liberals are lying about tax. I don't want to talk too much about it.
Well come along to Box Hill today where we’re going to talk more about how we are going to look after early childhood educators. Early childhood educators, it is a 96 per cent female dominated industry.
Well, my absolute conviction and belief, is that if we don't change, then the cost will be far greater than any initial investments.
How does that help keep us safe and strong?
Sure.
Well Mr Morrison will have to call an election in the next five months, they have to. What we're going to do is take nothing for granted, the people haven't voted yet.
In the year 50 BC, Gaul is occupied by the Romans - nearly. But the small village of Asterix and his friends still resists the Roman legions with the aid of their druid's magic potion, which gives superhuman strength. Learning of this potion, a Roman centurion kidnaps the druid to get the secret formula out of him.
Well first of all, we think that the Commonwealth and the politicians should have an anti-corruption commission. We want it to be a body which is created by law, that it is independent of government.
Good on you, Karl. Have a lovely day.
Well, you made a preamble to this question. I have answered questions on climate change many times, many times.
Sarah, you know, it’s about time we buried the sausage scandal of 2016. I did eat it sideways but, you know I had very good reasons.
No, what we are able to do is we are prioritising schools and hospitals over creating richer multinationals and more tax minimisers in you know, Caribbean Islands. That's how we pay for our promises.
First of all it’s a silly policy and it’s a policy that isn't going to happen. In terms of the Greens, what I say to them next time they catch a tram - trams run on steel.
Well, there's two ingredients, aren't there? First of all, there's permanent migration. The current Prime Minister says that he will lower the cap from 190,000 to 160,000.
Well, I think Mr Porter's problem is that the Prime Minister who he supported for the last three years say's there a problem and for the sake of certainty, you're best off referring it to the High Court. 
You can't have it all ways, you can't say when will you tell people ..
No, I’m happy if you do. What car you choose to drive is your business.
Well that's going to be a matter for the state and federal regulators isn't it.
Oh no. Listen, you and I know that, and more importantly Australians know, this is a Government who is going to run on fear and negativity.
Do you know what? I think Mr Dutton should refer himself. 
Yeah, I was with the Australian Workers Union, I was the Victorian Secretary and I was involved in trying to protect the workforce from the unfair blame of the company and trying to make sense of what had happened. And I met some fabulous local workforce at Longford, some have passed, but some I hope to see today at Longford.
Well no, fair's fair. I do think that people are very disillusioned, but you can't mark me down because we're willing to properly fund education and just dismiss it as spin.
Listen, the Liberals are lying about taxes. Let's just call it as it is.
Well, what we'll do in our way is we’ll put more investment in the Territory. I get there's a legitimate concern to make sure that no one gets disadvantaged in GST, and it was Labor nationally, working with the McGowan Government in Western Australia, who ensured the West got their fair share.
Yes, I am confident that we have got positive policies and we don't need to go down the negative divisive path. One difference between me and the current Government - we are united.
Set in 1977, back when sex was safe, pleasure was a business and business was booming, idealistic porn producer Jack Horner aspires to elevate his craft to an art form. Horner discovers Eddie Adams, a hot young talent working as a busboy in a nightclub, and welcomes him into the extended family of movie-makers, misfits and hangers-on that are always around. Adams' rise from nobody to a celebrity adult entertainer is meteoric, and soon the whole world seems to know his porn alter ego, "Dirk Diggler". Now, when disco and drugs are in vogue, fashion is in flux and the party never seems to stop, Adams' dreams of turning sex into stardom are about to collide with cold, hard reality.
Good morning Edwina.
Not paying attention to his job, a young demon allows the evil cleansing machine to overflow and explode, turning the young demon into the infamous monster Janemba. Goku and Vegeta make solo attempts to defeat the monster, but realize their only option is fusion.
Well, there are positives in this agreement too, for our farmers, for our steel industry, for our higher education sector.
Well we've got to find out why it happened and what happened. I'm not going to leap to any conclusions.
Valerie is in love with a brooding outsider, Peter, but her parents have arranged for her to marry another man – who is wealthy. Unwilling to lose each other, Valerie and Peter plan to run away together when they learn that Valerie's older sister has been killed by a werewolf that prowls the dark forest surrounding their village. Hungry for revenge, the people call on famed werewolf hunter, Father Solomon, to help them kill the wolf. But Solomon's arrival brings unintended consequences as he warns that the wolf, who takes human form by day, could be any one of them.
A hotshot Washington criminal lawyer becomes the target of a rogue security executive videotaped in the act of murdering a congressman when the incriminating tape is surreptitiously slipped into his shopping bag by the videographer, who is fleeing the executive's assassins.
First of all on the pledge, no I am not going to sign it. But you can deduce from that nothing other than I am not going to sign a pledge.
Furious that her late father only willed her his gloomy-looking mansion rather than his millions, Carrigan Crittenden is ready to burn the place to the ground when she discovers a map to a treasure hidden in the house. But when she enters the rickety mansion to seek her claim, she is frightened away by a wicked wave of ghosts. Determined to get her hands on this hidden fortune, she hires afterlife therapist Dr. James Harvey to exorcise the ghosts from the mansion. Harvey and his daughter Kat move in, and soon Kat meets Casper, the ghost of a young boy who's "the friendliest ghost you know." But not so friendly are Casper's uncles--Stretch, Fatso and Stinkie--who are determined to drive all "fleshies" away.
Based on a true story set in pre-war Japan, a man and one of his servants begin a torrid affair. Their desire becomes a sexual obsession so strong that to intensify their ardor, they forsake all, even life itself.
A troubled psychologist is sent to investigate the crew of an isolated research station orbiting a bizarre planet.
Set in the ghettos of Paris in 2010, an undercover cop and ex-thug try to infiltrate a gang in order to defuse a neutron bomb.
Wart is a young boy who aspires to be a knight's squire. On a hunting trip he falls in on Merlin, a powerful but amnesiac wizard who has plans for him beyond mere squiredom. He starts by trying to give him an education, believing that once one has an education, one can go anywhere. Needless to say, it doesn't quite work out that way.
Our climate change plans will grow the economy, they'll create jobs and they'll lower power prices. I notice there's been a bit of a debate and a bit of a scare campaign by the News Limited papers talking about international offsets for carbon pollution reduction.
When CIA Analyst Jack Ryan interferes with an IRA assassination, a renegade faction targets Jack and his family as revenge.
Well, this is the other good news - what it's going to mean is if you can store the energy during the day - say the family watching the show this morning, the kids go off to school, mum and dad might go to work - what happens is at the moment, if you have just got solar panels, you don't get the energy when you need it which is in the evenings, when the kids turn computers on and you need the energy. The beauty of the batteries is that the energy is going to be there when you need it not just when the sun is shining.
Oh, two questions, OK.
I had a dream...sleeping with you and Hwa-yeong.  Jin-goo and Joo-hee were happy until one day their daughter Hwa-yeong, who had eloped with another man, came home. Hwa-yeong and Jin-goo were a couple at school and she had gotten pregnant. So things took place quickly and they got to live with Hwa-yeong's mother Joo-hee. However, when Hwa-yeong found out she wasn't pregnant, hit it off with another man and left the house. Jin-goo and Joo-hee had fallen in love while she was gone. Hwa-yeong had broken up with her other man and came home. However, she finds it weird that Jin-goo is still at her mother's house. Jin-goo and Joo-hee put out all sorts of lies to hide the truth from Hwa-yeong.
No, she has strong views. I like Melissa.
An American pilot is sent to a Chinese province to teach a crew of would-be pilots how to fly war planes against the Japanese during World War II.
A bigoted junkie cop suffering from bipolar disorder and drug addiction manipulates and hallucinates his way through the festive season in a bid to secure promotion and win back his wife and daughter.
A deadly airborne virus finds its way into the USA and starts killing off people at an epidemic rate. Col Sam Daniels' job is to stop the virus spreading from a small town, which must be quarantined, and to prevent an over reaction by the White House.
In the future, a strange fungus has changed nearly everyone into a thoughtless, flesh-eating monster. When a scientist and a teacher find a girl who seems to be immune to the fungus, they all begin a journey to save humanity.
We will in principle. I mean it would have to be a pretty amazing reason not to.
The rebellious Thracian Spartacus, born and raised a slave, is sold to Gladiator trainer Batiatus. After weeks of being trained to kill for the arena, Spartacus turns on his owners and leads the other slaves in rebellion. As the rebels move from town to town, their numbers swell as escaped slaves join their ranks. Under the leadership of Spartacus, they make their way to southern Italy, where they will cross the sea and return to their homes.
I'm not choosing it, the scientists say it. It's what we've got to do to stop the planet getting warmer.
NYPD detectives Christopher Danson (Johnson) and P.K. Highsmith (Jackson) are the baddest and most beloved cops in New York City. They don't get tattoos, other men get tattoos of them. Two desks over and one back, sit detectives Allen Gamble (Ferrell) and Terry Hoitz (Wahlberg). You've seen them in the background of photos of Danson and Highsmith, out of focus and eyes closed. They're not heroes, they're "the other guys." But every cop has his or her day and soon Gamble and Hoitz stumble into a seemingly innocuous case no other detective wants to touch that could turn into NYC's biggest crime. It's the opportunity of their lives, but do these guys have the right stuff?
Charlie Kenton is a washed-up fighter who retired from the ring when robots took over the sport. After his robot is trashed, he reluctantly teams up with his estranged son to rebuild and train an unlikely contender.
Cheers, see you mate.
Who gets on the front bench is ultimately decided by the Caucus. But I think all things being equal that would be the case, yes.
The adventures of a heroic and debonair stalwart mouse named Stuart Little with human qualities, who faces some comic misadventures while searching for his lost bird friend and living with a human family as their child.
First of all, they are 2 different issues.
Well there's two issues there. One is the person and the other is the office.
Well, I want to try and answer -
Blonde Betty Elms has only just arrived in Hollywood to become a movie star when she meets an enigmatic brunette with amnesia. Meanwhile, as the two set off to solve the second woman's identity, filmmaker Adam Kesher runs into ominous trouble while casting his latest project.
A passionate holiday romance leads to an obsessive relationship when an Australian photojournalist wakes one morning in a Berlin apartment and is unable to leave.
A young man goes to his father's home in Maine where, helped by a public registry, he locates and tracks down sex offenders. In parallel, his mother follows his trail in order to try to understand what could have pushed him into this murderous madness.
Retired C.I.A. agent Frank Moses reunites his unlikely team of elite operatives for a global quest to track down a missing portable nuclear device.
Well I've explained that I didn't understand the question that was being asked.
I certainly don't think the outcome of the next election is at all decided. That will be decided by 15 or 16 million voters whenever the Government finally call an election.
And the Commonwealth public service.

The setting is Detroit in 1995. The city is divided by 8 Mile, a road that splits the town in half along racial lines. A young white rapper, Jimmy "B-Rabbit" Smith Jr. summons strength within himself to cross over these arbitrary boundaries to fulfill his dream of success in hip hop. With his pal Future and the three one third in place, all he has to do is not choke.
And if you don't have an explanation for how you're going to educate the kids or look after the sick or deal with our environment or make sure that we've got economic growth which is in the interests of everyone not just the lucky few, then people are going to say, they're going to look for more extreme solutions and just say no, we're not interested in this version of change which doesn't have a place for us in it. 
Advertising executive Nick Marshall is as cocky as they come, but what happens to a chauvinistic guy when he can suddenly hear what women are thinking? Nick gets passed over for a promotion, but after an accident enables him to hear women's thoughts, he puts his newfound talent to work against Darcy, his new boss, who seems to be infatuated with him.
Yeah well, there is a way to go, things close up. But what I'm going to do is focus on the people.
Sure. But I actually think Sale Secondary College is also important.
Well I don't think this country is getting a better deal from the third Liberal Prime Minister in five years. I don't think they do have a clear plan except to respond to events.
Yeah –
There's no doubt that if we back renewable energy, renewable energy is cheaper than existing forms of power in the future.
It mightn't be enough, I get that so - 
Good morning Michael.
I think the nation is sick and tired after ten years of arguing about climate change that we just don't get on with it. Energy prices have just gone up and up and up, in Sydney, 26 per cent on average nationally, 19 per cent.
What we have said is that we are going to review the Newstart allowance. It is, in my opinion too low.
This movie was followed by a sequel (The Japanese Wife Next Door – Part 2) which features the exact same cast, but follows Takashi’s fate if he had married Mina (the other woman he shared the drink with that night) instead.
His unholy sexual passion for his sister, his marriage to Rome's most infamous prostitute, his fiendishly inventive means of disposing those who would oppose him, and more.
Well good point. We are keeping an eye on this.
In the year 10,191, the world is at war for control of the desert planet Dune – the only place where the time-travel substance 'Spice' can be found. But when one leader gives up control, it's only so he can stage a coup with some unsavory characters.
Cinderella's Hot Night presents a lively retelling of the classic fairy tale...with a slightly more mature, erotic twist. Follow the adventures of the bewildered Cindy as she falls prey to her wicked sex-crazed benefactor all the while pining for her secret love, a noble European Prince. With the help of her smoking hot Fairy Godmother, Cindy finally realizes her dream of becoming a real-life Princess.
No, I haven’t quite got around to that.
Thanks for the conversation, Leigh. It was great.
Well all the research and science and experts make it clear that the more early years learning we can give our kids before they go to school, it just absolutely, quantum improves their learning experience at schools. So Labor has made a decision that we want to offer universal preschool, 15 hours a week, 40 weeks of the year, to all three and four year olds in Australia.
Lucky Luke becomes the Sheriff of Daisy Town and runs out all the criminals. Then the Dalton brothers arrive and try to get the Indians to break the peace treaty and attack the town.
love.
After watching their respective partners die, a cop and a hitman form an alliance in order to bring down their common enemy.
No. No.
Well we set up the National Disability Insurance Scheme when I was last in government. 
Wow. 
Maybe we need to have a plebiscite  - I don't know.
I think that we can miss out on what's happening around the world, you know climate change and the investment in renewables is one example but I think your question is going to a deeper point. Is change too hard in Australia and I don't think it is.
There will be no change to existing investors.
I just didn’t realise that we had a technophobic government who is afraid of new technology.
There are a number of points in what you say. First of all, enterprise bargaining was introduced 25 years ago.
There's 250 companies caught by our safeguards mechanism, the same safeguard mechanism the current government applies to 120, each company will respond differently. You and I know that the reason why the government's trying to focus on how much it might cost to put in a new renewable energy system is that they're trying to distract from the fact they have no climate change policy.
I've spoken to him a few times. But I notice the conspiracy of the far right against Malcolm Turnbull.
Thank you Jon.
Well I tell you what the numbers on me were the same before the State Election as they are now, but we’re doing pretty well. We’re doing well because we focus on people.
The adventures of two California Highway Patrol motorcycle officers as they make their rounds on the freeways of Los Angeles.
A retired pop singer turned actress' sense of reality is shaken when she is stalked by an obsessed fan and seemingly a ghost of her past.
Well this is my sixth January as Opposition Leader and what I'm hearing all over Australia, not just Queensland, is people are sick of the instability. So when you say what am I targeting, I don't look at Queensland as LNP or Labor, I just look at them as Queenslanders.
No that was the other part of your question, I said come back to it. So I think Julie Bishop's, for a Liberal, done a good job in foreign affairs.
Baby Bink couldn't ask for more; he has adoring (if somewhat sickly-sweet) parents, he lives in a huge mansion, and he's just about to appear in the social pages of the paper. Unfortunately, not everyone in the world is as nice as Baby Bink's parents; especially the three enterprising kidnapers who pretend to be photographers from the newspaper. Successfully kidnaping Baby Bink, they have a harder time keeping hold of the rascal, who not only keeps one step ahead of them, but seems to be more than a little bit smarter than the three bumbling criminals.
We've got the policies which are in the interests of working and middle Australia. To people listening to this show now who are just fed up with politics, I get that.
Author P.L. Travers travels from London to Hollywood as Walt Disney Pictures adapts her novel Mary Poppins for the big screen.
Jack Ryan, as a young covert CIA analyst, uncovers a Russian plot to crash the U.S. economy with a terrorist attack.
Barrie, is this Liberal government, this protection racket for the banks scandals and rip-offs we’ve seen, are they really telling Australians that the only way that we can have a banking sector is to have an unethical banking sector? I don't buy that, nor do thousands of farmers and small businesses and people who have been ripped off by the banks. I for one have been shocked.
It'll be great. Long overdue.
Pakistan-born comedian Kumail Nanjiani and grad student Emily Gardner fall in love but struggle as their cultures clash. When Emily contracts a mysterious illness, Kumail finds himself forced to face her feisty parents, his family's expectations, and his true feelings.
No, I'm not going to criticise Kevin there, I think he's entitled to his opinion, he's earned it the hard way and I think also, in answering that question about Mr Rudd that's the difference between Labor and Liberal. I acknowledge what Kevin and Julia have done, they did some good things.
A New Jersey guy dedicated to his family, friends, and church, develops unrealistic expectations from watching porn and works to find happiness and intimacy with his potential true love.
I will get Brendan to supplement the answer. We are not going to pick a final number but I will state this.
Yes ours is a nine day tour, although because it overlapped with the weekend, I've had a day on the Sunshine Coast. I'm here at Moffat Beach - it's in the People's Republic of Caloundra.
No. I've written to Mr Morrison - this is all pretty fast moving as you’d appreciate -  what I have written to Mr Morrison is a letter where I congratulate him, but I've also read media reports that they are rushing to appoint a new Governor-General, although the existing Governor-General's term doesn't finish until the end of March next year.
Let's be fair here, Leigh. Let’s be fair.
Well first of all, the only way that you could follow the government’s logic is if you would stop investing in property in Australia. The reality is most people invest in property because it is a good deal.
You've declined. I am sorry if you are busy at lunchtime.
I think there are some things that we can do -
Yes. So I think the Government doesn't want to have an election, but on the other hand I think the people of  Australia are feeling quite left out of all the decisions that have been happening recently.
Well, first of all, we have said that if you currently negatively gear, you will keep negative gearing. So it has no change to any Australian watching this show today.
Because it is costing $6 billion. The reality is that when you go to hospital it costs a lot more than $2000, I need to find money for our ageing population.
No. Let's go to one.
A man struggles with memories of his past, including a wife he cannot remember, in a nightmarish world with no sun and run by beings with telekinetic powers who seek the souls of humans.
Well, I think that part of the reason why Clive Palmer is copping some criticism is that he used to run a nickel plant or business interest associated with it in Townsville. And that nickel plant went into insolvency and workers were left with unpaid wages and entitlements - the taxpayers had to step into the shoes of Palmer and pay the workers their entitlements.
Yeah no, that’s somewhere with the Burberry trench coat. 
Every other level of government has an anti-corruption commission, other states have. I think that there's a lot that we can learn from those lessons.
James Bond returns as the secret agent 007 one more time to battle the evil organization SPECTRE. Bond must defeat Largo, who has stolen two atomic warheads for nuclear blackmail. But Bond has an ally in Largo's girlfriend, the willowy Domino, who falls for Bond and seeks revenge. This is the last time for Sean Connery as Her Majesty's Secret Agent 007. Made outside of the traditional Broccoli production environment due to separate rights having been obtained for this specific Ian Fleming story.
Ben Campbell is a young, highly intelligent, student at M.I.T. in Boston who strives to succeed. Wanting a scholarship to transfer to Harvard School of Medicine with the desire to become a doctor, Ben learns that he cannot afford the $300,000 for the four to five years of schooling as he comes from a poor, working-class background. But one evening, Ben is introduced by his unorthodox math professor Micky Rosa into a small but secretive club of five. Students Jill, Choi, Kianna, and Fisher, who are being trained by Professor Rosa of the skill of card counting at blackjack.
they want to look after the top end of town by cutting services to everyone.
Well I think that is essentially Mark's judgement, that he doesn't think it is going to happen and he doesn't support it. I think a lot of people feel that way.
The Wishbone family is far from happy. With a struggling bookshop, an overworked husband, and two misunderstood teenagers, Emma is at her wit's end trying to be the perfect mom. After dragging her family to a costume party on Halloween night, they are cursed by an evil witch and transformed into a Vampire, a Mummy, a Werewolf, and Frankenstein's monster. Now Emma will fight to keep her Monster Family together and uncover the secret of their curse... eventually leading them to the Prince of Darkness himself, Dracula!
I think there is disillusionment with institutions generally. I don't think a lot of people trust the media.
When a young boy makes a wish at a carnival machine to be big—he wakes up the following morning to find that it has been granted and his body has grown older overnight. But he is still the same 13-year-old boy inside. Now he must learn how to cope with the unfamiliar world of grown-ups including getting a job and having his first romantic encounter with a woman.
Well under Scott Morrison, immigration has gone up, not down. I mean, this is politics.
Well the franking credits, that's still prospective. Without everyone being bored to tears about the issue, in 1987, Paul Keating introduced the scheme, basic principle of tax equity, he said you shouldn't pay tax twice.
No. Let's go to that.
if you want to keep driving a petrol car, you can. Excellent.
You can't sugar-coat this. This is an Australian citizen who has been detained in China, the Embassy has just been notified.
Snoopy embarks upon his greatest mission as he and his team take to the skies to pursue their arch-nemesis, while his best pal Charlie Brown begins his own epic quest.
Well first of all, I understand the frustration of Australians about crowded infrastructure, and our immigration should be what's in the national interest but part of that debate has to be fixing up our infrastructure.
He's a vegetarian. When a lie turns Oscar into an improbable hero and Lenny becomes an outcast, the two form an unlikely friendship.
Have a lovely morning guys. The swimming program is really important, it's good policy.
Hang on a second. As you would know as a seasoned journalist, there is always plenty of conversations.
Yeah I think that there is - and it's not just the regions. You know, South Australia, there are plenty of places who would like to take some migrants.
I do think that there's too much bullying goes on and by that, I don't necessarily know what has happened to her and I don't have the facts but I have seen some of the Government rush to say oh it's all made up or that's just life. Sure, in adversarial politics you're going to disagree and things get said but I don't know what has gone on last week.
Twenty-eight-year-old Georgia is convinced the man of her dreams is "the one that got away" back in high school. When Georgia learns of her high school reunion a week before Christmas, she's ecstatic to finally have her chance to win Craig back. But as she gets to relive high school for a night, she begins to realize it might not be Craig at all who got away, but Ben, an old friend with whom she'd fallen out of touch.
Well good point. I think back in 2004, the then Labor Party in Parliament felt a bit stampeded.
Batman and Nightwing are forced to team with the Joker's sometimes-girlfriend Harley Quinn to stop a global threat brought about by Poison Ivy and Jason Woodrue, the Floronic Man.
Yeah, I've got to say that I think we should have an Australian head of state but my family, my eight year old is driving me crazy to meet Meghan Markle - there's no question that the royals - that every little girl loves a princess. 
No, it was everyone. It was a collective effort.
There they go again, the government. They already sound like they're backpedalling on making the banks accountable.
CIA Analyst Jack Ryan is drawn into an illegal war fought by the US government against a Colombian drug cartel.
Oh, I'm not getting ahead of myself. What we're going to do is not focus so much on the Government and the personalities but on our plan for the future.
All-stars from the previous Step Up installments come together in glittering Las Vegas, battling for a victory that could define their dreams and their careers.
What does that mean, he's not going to assassinate someone? I mean, sorry, but if you want to change the era I think the Liberals need to do some time in opposition to understand how fundamentally people don't like this. 
Spans the period from 1958 to the present day and tells the story of an unconditional love between a mother and her daughter which is endangered by an unsteady and manipulative father.
White Castle hamburgers. Both guys are at a crossroads, about to make major decisions that will affect the course of their lives. Yet they arrive at wisdom by accident as they drive around New Jersey in search of fast food.
Listen, I think what happened is that people just want you to get on with the job. I don’t think everyone agrees with everything that Labor says, and people don’t agree with everything the Liberals say.
Yeah. I would pick a more positive number than costs.
Well first of all, it is just a nonsense claim. It is a nonsense claim and it is built upon the back of a big lie.
They still are. They still are.
They have invented iView You know it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day - 
– sure 
Well, I was in Whyalla today, talking to the people who run OneSteel and they made it clear that they're investing in more renewable energy. So there is a cost to investing in new technology but they're absolutely convinced that the only way we will keep making steel in Australia is by investing in renewable energy.
No, it's still got a long way to go. That would be too arrogant to just assume that the election is over.
We're committed to putting in place anti-bulling programs. Keeping kids safe shouldn't be the matter of the politics that it is.
The incredible true story behind the most controversial Italian court cases in recent years. Stefano Cucchi was arrested for a minor crime and mysteriously found dead during his detention. In one week's time, a family is changed forever.
Occasionally we do.
It's not even true so it's not that tough to counter. If we stop -
If we want to talk about conflicting positions, let's be even handed here, Leigh. You have got all these Scott Morrison Liberals down in Melbourne and Sydney, they call themselves "modern Liberals", and you've got the LNP in Queensland with a different view.
Cheerio, bye-bye.
All right, good chat. Thank you.
Kevin McCallister's parents have split up. Now living with his mom, he decides to spend Christmas with his dad at the mansion of his father's rich girlfriend, Natalie. Meanwhile robber Marv Merchants, one of the villains from the first two movies, partners up with a new criminal named Vera to hit Natalie's mansion.
A fair go for all. We're going to invest in people and invest in infrastructure.
18-year-old Penny Cooper spent years pining for Johnny Sanders Jr., but when a mysterious musician shows up on the beach, Penny is torn.
Coal and our gas are important industries going forward. They are important to our exports and that will be part of our energy mix, but I am going to take real action on climate change.
Set between Episode II and III the Clone Wars is the first computer animated Star Wars film. Anakin and Obi Wan must find out who kidnapped Jabba the Hutts son and return him safely. The Seperatists will try anything to stop them and ruin any chance of a diplomatic agreement between the Hutt's and the Republic.
By all means.
Can a storybook view of romance survive in the real world?
First of all, when it comes to community sector, there was some wage improvement made for them when Labor was last in power. When it comes to aged care, let's see what the Royal Commission does.
Well, first of all, we've always made clear that whatever outcome occurs should be after consultation and negotiation with business including small business.
Complete strangers stranded at a remote desert motel during a raging storm soon find themselves the target of a deranged murderer. As their numbers thin out, the travelers begin to turn on each other, as each tries to figure out who the killer is.
I think the state election had a range of state issues, there is always a lesson there and we're not complacent. What we are doing nationally is we're not relying on the fact we're the Government.
No. What we will do though is we're going to pick up what Malcolm Turnbull proposed.
I haven't seen those remarks. But I think what you said in the preamble is correct.
We can afford to do this because we are making the tough economic decisions. We want multinationals to pay more tax.
A deaf woman is stalked by a psychotic killer in her secluded home.
We believe that anyone who comes here via people smuggler should be resettled in a third party nation, yes.
Well first of all, we don't accept that. This is the Government who's raised more taxes than anyone before us.
That's a really good point. First of all, the government loves to say that if we are not going to give a tax subsidy to a property investor, somehow that’s a property tax.
What our changes will mean is that it will be fairer, in terms of…
We need an independent national broadcaster.  
When a car bomb explodes on the American side of the U.S./Mexico border, Mexican drug enforcement agent Miguel Vargas begins his investigation, along with American police captain Hank Quinlan. When Vargas begins to suspect that Quinlan and his shady partner, Menzies, are planting evidence to frame an innocent man, his investigations into their possible corruption quickly put himself and his new bride, Susie, in jeopardy.
John Carter is a war-weary, former military captain who's inexplicably transported to the mysterious and exotic planet of Barsoom (Mars) and reluctantly becomes embroiled in an epic conflict. It's a world on the brink of collapse, and Carter rediscovers his humanity when he realizes the survival of Barsoom and its people rests in his hands.
Four Navy SEALs on a covert mission to neutralize a high-level al-Qaeda operative must make an impossible moral decision in the mountains of Afghanistan that leads them into an enemy ambush. As they confront unthinkable odds, the SEALs must find reserves of strength and resilience to fight to the finish.
No, not at all. Did you know Karl that since they have got into power they have doubled the national debt? And what we have also seen is that they've had deficit upon deficit.
Well, that's all happened under the current government and that's at the heart of this election. This government loves to talk about a strong economy but strong for who? Corporate profits are up 39 per cent but wages are only up 5 per cent.
I think that putting in a black and white legislation just puts it beyond doubt. I mean it's not me, it's the Government has had three different Prime Ministers in the time I've been Opposition Leader.
I think it would, be if they rush this, this will be an act of desperation, and what they want to do is try and assert decisions for which they don't have any responsibility after the next election if they are unsuccessful. 
Liquidated after discovering a corporate conspiracy, mild-mannered graphic artist Patience Phillips washes up on an island, where she's resurrected and endowed with the prowess of a cat -- and she's eager to use her new skills ... as a vigilante. Before you can say "cat and mouse," handsome gumshoe Tom Lone is on her tail.
Well first of all, you know that when the polls are good or bad, over five years, one month and 13 days, I haven't commented. I'm not going to start doing that now.
As America's stock of athletic young men is depleted during World War II, a professional all-female baseball league springs up in the Midwest, funded by publicity-hungry candy maker Walter Harvey (Garry Marshall). Competitive sisters Dottie Hinson (Geena Davis) and Kit Keller (Lori Petty) spar with each other, scout Ernie Capadino (Jon Lovitz) and grumpy has-been coach Jimmy Dugan (Tom Hanks) on their way to fame. Madonna and Rosie O'Donnell co-star as two of the sisters' teammates.
Well, first of all, the reason why we're doing it is there is no principle that says it is fair that a non-taxpayer gets a tax refund, a cash tax refund. But it is also not fair that we're spending $100 million a week paying non-taxpayers cash tax refunds.
Sorry about that Lisa.
lower the prices, take real action on climate change and ensure reliability. Batteries for households is the missing link.
Benjamin, a young German computer whiz, is invited to join a subversive hacker group that wants to be noticed on the world's stage.
Fiscal responsibility is important, I don't accept the Liberal argument that somehow Dan Andrews isn't fiscally responsible, they've made some very strong decisions. But we've been making hard economic reforms, my economic team of Chris Bowen and Jim Chalmers and the others, we've been making serious economic reform proposals to explain how we pay for our changes.
give in to the terrorists and sacrifice his family, or risk everything to uphold his principles - and the integrity of the nation.
Three high school students make an incredible discovery, leading to their developing uncanny powers beyond their understanding. As they learn to control their abilities and use them to their advantage, their lives start to spin out of control, and their darker sides begin to take over.
Well we are putting forward a series of recommendations. Changing the law on whistleblowers, changing the ability of companies to mask or hide what they are doing.
The evil Dr. Kochin uses the dragon balls to resurrect his mentor, Dr. Wheelo, in an effort to take over the world. Dr. Wheelo, his body having been destroyed by the avalanche that killed him fifty years before, desires the body of the strongest fighter in the world as his new vessel. Believing Roshi to be the world's strongest warrior, Dr. Kochin abducts Bulma and forces Roshi to surrender himself to save her. When Goku hears of their abduction, he goes to their rescue.
No. I just want to reassure Australians that despite the chaos and division that we saw last week in the Government and their inability to explain why they got rid of Malcolm Turnbull, I want to reassure Australians that what we're working on is positive reasons to vote for Labor.
We’re here to explain Labor’s great policies for this election. In particular, on this visit we’re talking about our exciting new ideas to improve health funding.
I like the principle, that's my answer. I think the principle of it.
Do we spend too much or we won't spend enough? The reality is for me, it's not - I don't view education and health -
No, he supports party policy and that is our party policy, a two-state solution - the right of Israel to exist behind secure borders but also recognising the legitimate aspirations of Palestinian people to their own country. 
What we want to do, and we think, without question, the preferred position will be to refer it off to the High Court - let's get resolution. I think that the Australian people hate the fact that the politicians can't guarantee if they're eligible to do their day job.
No. I have got to say that what concerns me is the waiting list that someone - the waiting time that someone has to get an elective surgery.
We'll have more to say about energy policy in the next couple of months but I think you're right. The Government did some work on the National Energy Guarantee and we are prepared to use that as part of our framework going forward.
Just hang on, hang on, gentlemen, ladies, we've a fair go at this press conference, perhaps I'll allow one more question and then we got to finish up, we've got to go to Tiwi.
It was a big time. I remember, of course, that two men got killed and another two were badly burnt.
Well I like Melissa. I think she is an accomplished woman and she was a good Member of Parliament when she was there and she's also worked overseas for the United Nations and refugees so, I like her.
Graced with a velvet voice, 21-year-old Violet Sanford heads to New York to pursue her dream of becoming a songwriter only to find her aspirations sidelined by the accolades and notoriety she receives at her "day" job as a barmaid at Coyote Ugly. The "Coyotes" as they are affectionately called tantalize customers and the media alike with their outrageous antics, making Coyote Ugly the watering hole for guys on the prowl.
Six short stories that explore the extremities of human behavior involving people in distress.
A fast-talking lawyer transforms his body and takes a vow of silence, not to be broken until he finds out who killed his wife and daughter and has his revenge.
These guys have got to stop focusing on themselves and do their day job. Now I'm sure that will lead to angry comments from the right wing of the Liberal Party but, if they think that what they've done in the last week has made Australia a better place they're sadly mistaken.
Ok, but I'm happy to contribute, though.
First of all, there are concerns that trade agreements provide some disadvantages as well as some advantages. I'm sympathetic to that complaint.
I don't see how that's possible. We'll have to see what the Government is thinking and they need to consult on the terms of reference.
But it's interesting, when you get off a plane at Tullamarine or at Mascot when you come from overseas, whilst you've enjoyed your visit overseas you know there's things about this country we're proud of, but we don't - when we get back to Australia - when we're overseas do we talk about our Medicare system or our tax deductions?
Grace, a compassionate young supervisor at a foster care facility, works with her boyfriend and colleague, Mason, to help at-risk teens. But when a new charge dredges up memories of her own troubled past, Grace's tough exterior begins eroding.
Good, that's good. There you go.
Yeah, I can, and I'm also fortunate to have people of the calibre of Senator Dodson here and I might give him a run on the ball, but I'll just make this. The current CDP's not working.
No, that's right. Someone's got to have the courage to stand up for the next generation, that's what we will do.
The hyperactive red-headed bird enters a turf war with a big city lawyer wanting to tear down his home in an effort to build a house to flip.
If you want to talk about bullying, how about that LNP trying to threaten Melissa Price's job?
That's Kevin's opinion. What I'm going to do is -
Listen, I think some of our time zone differences are absolutely crazy, but I also know that every state has got very long held views on this issue. So let's start with immigration and cost of living and wages, then when we have done all of that, let's get on to daylight savings.
Follows a young man named Albert and his horse, Joey, and how their bond is broken when Joey is sold to the cavalry and sent to the trenches of World War One. Despite being too young to enlist, Albert heads to France to save his friend.
No, I'm just saying that he can make decisions which affect them now, but appointing -  this is the Head of State of Australia. 
Well we want the subsidy to go to the parents and what we're going to say to child care operators though is that we don't want them ramping up the prices. I think this is important point to make.
Well we’ll release our figures before the election is concluded, but we’ve also made clear that we think we need to wind back what we give to negative gearing.
Yes, I thought the vote would be successful but what I realised on the morning of the vote being declared was the amount of pressure that a lot of people - LGBTQ people felt because what it was is this silly process which got the right outcome. It put a lot of pressure on our fellow Australians.
Well, changing the Constitution is very difficult. And in fact, this period of Australian history, unlike tenure of Prime Ministers, has been the longest period in which our Constitution hasn't been updated.
A group of surviving people take refuge in a shopping centre after the world has been over taken over by aggressive, flesh-eating zombies.
We need to see the final detail. Anyone who says that they can commit to something that they haven't seen is selling you something which isn't real.
That's good.
The dynamic duo of Chon Wang and Roy O'Bannon return for another crazy adventure. This time, they're in London to avenge the murder of Chon's father, but end up on an even bigger case. Chon's sister is there to do the same, but instead unearths a plot to kill the royal family. No one believes her, though, and it's up to Chon and Roy (who has romance on his mind) to prove her right.
Fletcher Reede is a fast-talking attorney and habitual liar. When his son Max blows out the candles on his fifth birthday he has just one wish - that his dad will stop lying for 24 hours. When Max's wish comes true, Fletcher discovers that his mouth has suddenly become his biggest liability.
No, I’ll tell you what my Labor colleagues they are adults, they can sign or not. Doesn't change our policy and our policy is as simple as this, we get that fossil fuel and coal is important to export and power generation but I promise Australian who are fed up with the dysfunction and disunity of the Government on climate change we need to act.
It doesn't matter if it's a union who comes to me or a business, an environmental activist. What I'll do if Prime Minister, is I'll work with all of those interests, but I'm not going to be the servant of any of those interests.
In the combustible action franchise's final installment, maverick detectives Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh square off against Asian mobster Wah Sing Ku, who's up to his neck in slave trading and counterfeit currency. With help from gumshoe Leo Getz and smart-aleck rookie cop Lee Butters, Riggs and Murtaugh aim to take down Ku and his gang.
After his wife dies, a blacksmith named Balian is thrust into royalty, political intrigue and bloody holy wars during the Crusades.
We think that there's something that we can work with there, yes. I mean part of the problem though, Barrie, and I think that we need to have this discussion, is that the market is dysfunctional in terms of energy prices.
We're not going back to the policies of the past. We're not going to have a carbon tax.
No. And the point about it is that she is a strong person.
Good morning.
Yes, for the vast bulk of people we are offering the same thing. You are quite right, for the three per cent of tax earners we still think we need a budget repair levy until 22-23.
When teen Sarah is forced to babysit Toby, her baby stepbrother, she summons Jareth the Goblin King to take him away. When he is actually kidnapped, Sarah is given just thirteen hours to solve a labyrinth and rescue him.
Hard-to-crack ex-CIA man, Jack Byrnes and his wife, Dina head for the warmer climes of Florida to meet son-in-law-to-be, Greg Focker's parents. Unlike their happily matched offspring, the future in-laws find themselves in a situation of opposites that definitely do not attract.
Frank Drebin is persuaded out of retirement to go undercover in a state prison. There he is to find out what top terrorist, Rocco, has planned for when he escapes. Frank's wife, Jane, is desperate for a baby.. this adds to Frank's problems. A host of celebrities at the Academy awards ceremony are humiliated by Frank as he blunders his way trying to foil Rocco.
The place would erupt if if they rolled him. 
Well I think this is a Government to be honest, who have stopped governing. They view everything through the prism of beating Labor and winning the election.
An uptight by-the-book cop must protect the widow of a drug boss from crooked cops and gunmen.
When Earth astronaut Capt. Chuck Baker arrives on Planet 51 -- a world reminiscent of American suburbia circa 1950 -- he tries to avoid capture, recover his spaceship and make it home safely, all with the help of an empathetic little green being.
We want to make sure that our defence spending is up to 2 per cent of our national economy. We are committed to making sure that we properly fund our national security agencies and the Federal Police.
Well you would love to know what business Tim is in, he obviously is having some business difficulties already, but let me just say this on climate change. First of all, taking action on climate change is good for the economy.
We're going to change the laws and we're going to put the resources to enforce the laws. If you want to crack down on multinationals and very, very wealthy people not paying their tax, who do you trust? The Liberal Party who spent most of their time in government wanting to give them tax cuts, or the Labor Party who wants to properly fund our schools and hospitals? When it comes to this, there's only one party you can trust to clean it up and that's the Labor Party.
Sure.
Well I don't know the answer to that, but I'm not sure that Mr Morrison does. With Mr Turnbull announcing that he'll step down, he won't be back in Parliament, which means that the Government only has 75 MPs out of 150 and one of those is the Speaker, so that means they have 74.
We get into the adjectives game, what I can say is it is too low.
Set on an island off the coast of New England in the summer of 1965, Moonrise Kingdom tells the story of two twelve-year-olds who fall in love, make a secret pact, and run away together into the wilderness. As various authorities try to hunt them down, a violent storm is brewing off-shore – and the peaceful island community is turned upside down in more ways than anyone can handle.
Yeah, I don't know where the Government thinks they get the money they spend from. They don't just magic it up through their sheer genius.
Lara Croft ventures to an underwater temple in search of the mythological Pandora's Box but, after securing it, it is promptly stolen by the villainous leader of a Chinese crime syndicate. Lara must recover the box before the syndicate's evil mastermind uses it to construct a weapon of catastrophic capabilities.
Well, if you think we're catching, if you think that we are hearing all of the insider deals that go on well I don’t share that view. Labor is going to pursue and make sure we restore faith in institutions, not just in the government.
Leigh, you know there's no plans for 60 per cent or indeed 50 per cent, but I agree that what we need to do is eventually lighten the burden of income tax across all the levels. But to be fair, we already are offering 3.
cement, steel, aluminium and other sectors. We have created a $300 million dollar fund to help them invest in new technology.
It was just madness. My view is that people's relationships are their own business.
Yes. There's already 50,000 batteries installed around Australia.
I have only read what you read. Mr Assange is entitled to his day in court.
Leigh, let's see how we go in the election first. We haven't won and we haven't lost.
A newly married couple who, in the process of starting a family, learn many of life's important lessons from their trouble-loving retriever, Marley. Packed with plenty of laughs to lighten the load, the film explores the highs and lows of marriage, maturity and confronting one's own mortality, as seen through the lens of family life with a dog.
Well, we have a look around the world and the Americans have been able to make some big breakthroughs in some financial scandals by basically encouraging some of the people involved to be able to come forward and get a reward. What our plan means for people who are doing the wrong thing is that just be aware of the person next to you because they might just want the reward and not put up with corruption.
Jigsaw and his apprentice Amanda are dead. Now, upon the news of Detective Kerry's murder, two seasoned FBI profilers, Agent Strahm and Agent Perez, arrive in the terrified community to assist the veteran Detective Hoffman in sifting through Jigsaw's latest grisly remains and piecing together the puzzle. However, when SWAT Commander Rigg is abducted and thrust into a game, the last officer untouched by Jigsaw has but ninety minutes to overcome a series of demented traps and save an old friend...or face the deadly consequences.
It's so dishonest this debate. It is so dishonest - 
Super. Thank you.
Corporate downsizing expert Ryan Bingham spends his life in planes, airports, and hotels, but just as he’s about to reach a milestone of ten million frequent flyer miles, he meets a woman who causes him to rethink his transient life.
You know, it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day and replay it. I often see that.
That's right.
Well we are going to review it. First things first - I do think Newstart is too low.
Maybe not the lollies. See you, bye.
The story of British officer T.E. Lawrence's mission to aid the Arab tribes in their revolt against the Ottoman Empire during the First World War. Lawrence becomes a flamboyant, messianic figure in the cause of Arab unity but his psychological instability threatens to undermine his achievements.
An IRS agent with a fateful secret embarks on an extraordinary journey of redemption by forever changing the lives of seven strangers.
Let's go through each of those points rather than rapid fire, let's have a conversation. First of all, we have outlined our policies for the last three years.
Look forward to talking.
No, not at all. What’s happening now is that this government is raising record taxes and they spend it on property investors on their sixth house with negative gearing.
Well, I don't accept your assumption it's less enticing. It's preferentially taxed on the way in.
I think, Fran, is this the way we want immigration laws and strong borders being made by people whose constitutional eligibility has a cloud over it? 
Yes, Labor believes that we need to fund more preschool. We need to give all 3 year olds and 4 year olds in Australia the best jump start to going into school.
Dusty is a cropdusting plane who dreams of competing in a famous aerial race. The problem? He is hopelessly afraid of heights. With the support of his mentor Skipper and a host of new friends, Dusty sets off to make his dreams come true.
It won't have a negative effect on economic growth. In fact, most of the mainstream modelling shows that our economy will continue to grow.
It was a relief. That was the point.
We talk about a strong minimum wage, we don't talk about the top two percent of Australians not having to pay tax. It's interesting what we're proud of.
Okay sure.
We've already said that we would put money back into the Catholic and non-government system but Labor believes in education. So we will put money back into the government schools too.
Víctor is a child who is found casually roaming by a country road. His mother, Patricia, a well-known lawyer specialist in media trails, realizes about it and she goes to the hospital, where explains to the police that Víctor is deaf, and he's unable to talk, speaking using sign language. In the police headquarter Víctor explains that he was kidnapped by a strange man when we was entering to the school. The police identifies a possible suspect named Charlie, a man with money troubles and an 8-months pregnant wife who can't explain where he was when Víctor was kidnapped from the school. Seeing the inability of the police to arrest Charlie after some failed attempts to meet Víctor, Patricia contacts Raúl, Patricia's former love interest and Víctor's father, to ask him that he or a friends of him threat seriously Charlie. But when is discovered that Víctor made a false identification, Patricia tries to stop Raúl, starting a chain of events which consequences will be out of control...
Great to be on the show.
I think you just said earlier on that it was just, in very recent moments, that Tanya made that comment so, I haven't seen them. But it's a matter of record that Mr Mundine was unsuccessful in convincing the Labor Party, over many years.
Well, I think that there's been a lot of developments, hasn't there? This is not just Labor saying there's a cloud over the eligibility of a senior minister - it's now Malcolm Turnbull, it's now Julie Bishop. The Solicitor-General's advice that the Government relies upon, says that it thinks that it is the better position that Mr Dutton's Constitutionally eligible, but it doesn't give a 100 per cent guarantee and having learnt the hard way myself, you're better removing all ambiguity and submitting it to the High Court.
The Coast Guard makes a daring rescue attempt off the coast of Cape Cod after a pair of oil tankers are destroyed during a blizzard in 1952.
Well that's good he went there, I'm not going to complain about that, that's good he went there. Chloe and I went up to Western Queensland to have a look, I mean the drought has been there for years, it sort of finally got onto the national agenda.
Frederick Abberline is an opium-huffing inspector from Scotland Yard who falls for one of Jack the Ripper's prostitute targets in this Hughes brothers adaption of a graphic novel that posits the Ripper's true identity.
the fabled Bracelet of Anubis. Unfortunately, a newly resurrected Imhotep has designs on the bracelet as well, and isn’t above kidnapping its new bearer, Alex, to gain control of Anubis’s otherworldly army.
I think that is one of the questions of the ages. The member for Manila, but Jason's been our representative in northern Australia so I might get him to talk further.
We want to put forward positive views. Some people say the Government's such a disorganised shambles, just sit back and buy a box of popcorn, but the point is that puts more pressure on us, because people think the system is broken.
We've said that we don't want to see any Commonwealth tax-payer money directly or indirectly go into it, we've seen the missed deadlines, we're sceptics. We've said no taxpayer money should be used in this proposition.
Yes, she and Penny and myself, we think that the time has come to revisit that. What's happened is that over time we've started to provide protection against sex discrimination.
Well, first of all, the Government a few weeks ago said that they wanted to look at how we can break through the encrypted telecommunications of people who are criminals, terrorists and the like. We said that's fair enough.
Because for the last three years, and indeed six years, we have been united. We are putting all our policies out there.
Oh, we don't know that yet. We're working very hard on it.
I’ll come to cheaper in a second, first of all let’s deal with fair, this is the real reason we’re doing it. How is it fair, Barrie, that a couple have to compete to buy their first home with someone who is getting a taxpayer funded handout to buy their sixth or seventh home.
Set in Las Vegas, the film centers on a man who attends his best friend's bachelor party, unaware of an insidious agenda that plays into hunting humans.
A couple with a newborn baby face unexpected difficulties after they are forced to live next to a fraternity house.
Well, we've been doing a lot of hard work in the last five years as a united and stable opposition. We're not willing to face the next election and just rely on the Government's mistakes to get us across the line, our democratic system is too important.
Thank you.
The war against the Bugs continues! A Federation Starship crash-lands on the distant Alien planet OM-1, stranding beloved leader Sky Marshal Anoke and several others, including comely but tough pilot Lola Beck. It's up to Colonel/General Johnny Rico, reluctant hero of the original Bug Invasion on Planet P, to lead a team of Troopers on a daring rescue mission.
As you'd be aware, Labor's been working hard from Opposition to identify how we can improve the bottom line of the Budget. That's why we are going to reform unsustainable tax concessions which principally flow to the very well-off and we want to reuse some of that money not just to pay down debt, not just to give tax refunds to people under $100,000, but we want to invest in passing on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received from our parents.
I think Wentworth is a hard seat for Labor to win. It's a margin of nearly 18 per cent.
Well, I don’t accept that. First of all, the idea that the environment and the economy are two separate planets and separate solar systems is rubbish.
listen, you're the reason why the vote is going to go down. Which wasn't necessarily diplomatic -
I'd welcome an overdue look at the aged care sector in Australia.
Secure within a desolate home as an unnatural threat terrorizes the world, a man has established a tenuous domestic order with his wife and son, but this will soon be put to test when a desperate young family arrives seeking refuge.
And it didn't exist before we got there but I spent a lot of time talking to people with disability and their careers and then we built up a coalition of people who really wanted to see a better deal.
Well what we want to do is create a level playing field, first of all. Why should a pair of first-home buyers, you know supported by their parents, they could be in their late 20s, early 30s.
there is still a man inside the machine.
Jerry, a small-town Minnesota car salesman is bursting at the seams with debt... but he's got a plan. He's going to hire two thugs to kidnap his wife in a scheme to collect a hefty ransom from his wealthy father-in-law. It's going to be a snap and nobody's going to get hurt... until people start dying. Enter Police Chief Marge, a coffee-drinking, parka-wearing - and extremely pregnant - investigator who'll stop at nothing to get her man. And if you think her small-time investigative skills will give the crooks a run for their ransom... you betcha!
During their travel from Chicago to New York, Harry and Sally debate whether or not sex ruins a friendship between a man and a woman. Eleven years later, and they're still no closer to finding the answer.
Sorry, I didn't pluck that out of nowhere. That was the Paris Agreement.
When the girl that detective Joe Hallenback is protecting gets murdered, the boyfriend of the murdered girl attempts to investigate and solve the case. What they discover is that there is deep seated corruption going on between a crooked politician and the owner of a pro football team.
Well first of all, I haven't commented on the polls for the last five years. I think that - and today, it is even more important than ever that we talk about policy.
Anyway, so we get the hypocrisy of the process but today's a good day. It's a year on.
A young man struggles to access sublimated childhood memories. He finds a technique that allows him to travel back into the past, to occupy his childhood body and change history. However, he soon finds that every change he makes has unexpected consequences.
No listen, I've been very lucky with my team in the last five years. I'm on my third Liberal Prime Minister and I think that if you want to look at disunity you've got to look at the Government don't you.
Well whilst I'm not running for Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, especially as Michael Gunner is doing such a good job, gee the new Gunner Government was left with a lot of problems by the outgoing administration, the CLP-run people. You know, the CLP managed to do the double - the daily double.
Yeah, okay.
Whether we’re young or forever young at heart, the Hundred Acre Wood calls to that place in each of us that still believes in magic. Join pals Pooh, Piglet, Kanga, Roo, Owl, Rabbit, Tigger and Christopher Robin as they enjoy their days together and sing their way through adventures.
See you.
Yes, but it is a development. Also there's a Nationals Member of Parliament, perhaps a quiet achiever is what you would call him, Mr Hogan up in Page, and he's said he's going to sit on the crossbench as well.
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson find themselves in 1890s London in this holiday special.
We'll change that when we get into government because I don't agree with that.
Arthur is a spirited ten-year old whose parents are away looking for work, whose eccentric grandfather has been missing for several years, and who lives with his grandmother in a country house that, in two days, will be repossessed, torn down, and turned into a block of flats unless Arthur's grandfather returns to sign some papers and pay off the family debt. Arthur discovers that the key to success lies in his own descent into the land of the Minimoys, creatures no larger than a tooth, whom his grandfather helped relocate to their garden. Somewhere among them is hidden a pile of rubies, too. Can Arthur be of stout heart and save the day? Romance beckons as well, and a villain lurks.
The story of Michael Oher, a homeless and traumatized boy who became an All American football player and first round NFL draft pick with the help of a caring woman and her family
"Dirty" Harry Callahan is a San Francisco Police Inspector on the trail of a group of rogue cops who have taken justice into their own hands. When shady characters are murdered one after another in grisly fashion, only Dirty Harry can stop them.
In a futuristic world where the polar ice caps have melted and made Earth a liquid planet, a beautiful barmaid rescues a mutant seafarer from a floating island prison. They escape, along with her young charge, Enola, and sail off aboard his ship. But the trio soon becomes the target of a menacing pirate who covets the map to 'Dryland' – which is tattooed on Enola's back.
An uproarious version of history that proves nothing is sacred – not even the Roman Empire, the French Revolution and the Spanish Inquisition.
Who, Rupert Murdoch or Kevin Rudd?
Well I think you've got to work on that. We've got to make the kids safe.
I choose to invest in schools and hospitals, reducing the aged care waiting list, making sure people can get apprenticeships, making sure that we can reduce the out-of-pocket costs in Medicare. It's all about choices and you know, we're up for the legitimate debate.
Using a special camera that can see spirits, a family must protect their daughter from an evil entity with a sinister plan.
Tom and Hannah have been platonic friends for 10 years. He's a serial dater, while she wants marriage but hasn't found Mr. Right. Just as Tom is starting to think that he is relationship material after all, Hannah gets engaged. When she asks Tom to be her 'maid' of honor, he reluctantly agrees just so he can attempt to stop the wedding and woo her.
Well there's no doubt that there's lessons federally and you've mentioned a whole range of seats where there was a significant swing to Labor. There was a strong swing to Labor even in my own seat.
Police chief Brody must protect the citizens of Amity after a second monstrous shark begins terrorizing the waters.
The subsidy will be for parents. If your household income is up to $68,000 we will provide a 100 per cent subsidy up to the capped amount of $11.
At the moment they can be north of $10,000, so they're certainly not cheap. Over the life of the battery installation people get the value back.
Of course.
There's a couple of big hypotheticals there aren't there, Lisa. But I'll go to the Adani matter, and then I'll go to jobs in Queensland.
extortion. To achieve his goal, he recruits musclemen Paul and Adrian as accomplices. After several failed attempts, they abduct rich businessman Victor Kershaw and convince him to sign over all his assets to them. But when Kershaw makes it out alive, authorities are reluctant to believe his story.
I have no plans to review the approvals. But if we want to be fair dinkum, let's be fair dinkum and let's tell the voters the truth here, all of us.
While hiding from bullies in his school's attic, a young boy discovers the extraordinary land of Fantasia, through a magical book called The Neverending Story. The book tells the tale of Atreyu, a young warrior who, with the help of a luck dragon named Falkor, must save Fantasia from the destruction of The Nothing.
In a mysterious and remote snowy outpost, Matt and Potter share a Christmas meal, swapping creepy tales of their earlier lives in the outside world, but are both men who they appear to be?
The true story of Marine Corporal Megan Leavey, who forms a powerful bond with an aggressive combat dog, Rex. While deployed in Iraq, the two complete more than 100 missions and save countless lives, until an IED explosion puts their faithfulness to the test.
A young violinist unravels her long lost father's past, triggering dark forces that reach beyond her imagination.
Adam Sandler invites you to share some holiday cheer in the new, no-holds-barred musical comedy Adam Sandler's 8 Crazy Nights. Davey Stone, a 33-year old party animal, finds himself in trouble with the law after his wild ways go too far.
I tell you what, the last Prime Minister or the last leader who worried about the polls, is probably watching this on iView from New York. I don't think it's done me a lot of harm not talking about the polls.
If he kills the king, Draco will die as well.
Yes 
Following a wild night out with his Best Man, Rob Anderson wakes up to find himself naked in an elevator on the morning of his wedding day and is forced to relive the morning over and over again.
They are not correct. There you go, short answer too.
Yeah lovely to talk. And it's going to be great to see some people even though it's marking a tragic event.
I think we are, but I think some of the shenanigans at the top level and the personality conflicts has left people disillusioned, but the way we will get around that is that we'll just go back to a more independent process to pick the senior leadership of the ABC. 
Well we are winding back the negative gearing tax concessions on future houses and we are also making other changes to the system of taxation, which will see that some tax concessions which are given to the top end won't be so generous in the future, and instead we're going to use that money to educate the next generation of Australians.
Yes. I mean, the Prime Minister, you said something that he said which deserves answering and this is the first occasion I've had to answer it since his remarkable press conference.
Seven strangers are taken out of their daily lives and placed mysteriously in a deadly cube where they all agree they must find their way out.
Lovely thank you very much for your interest.
If you don’t start – you are quite right, and what sort of world are we passing on to the next generation? We know this government is paralysed on climate change, and if they weren’t, Malcolm Turnbull would still be the Prime Minister, wouldn’t he?
About a million Australian families will benefit from our initiative on child care. Everywhere I’ve travelled in Australia as Opposition Leader, one of the single biggest problems that people tell me is that everything is going up except their wages and child care is in one of the biggest things which is going up in price.
We do think that Western Australia has had a bad deal in the past, but we've got to make sure that if we legislate to give a better deal to Western Australia, which is what Labor has called for, that we just make sure that no other state is worse off. I think it's very important that Mr Morrison doesn't rush this, what we've got to do is make sure Western Australia gets a proper deal but no other state should be worse off.
It's about time we had the renewables revolution. We're proposing to make it easier for households to buy solar powered batteries.
Well, between five to six years, we've seen the recoup in the solar panels. They'll get cheaper, and also what we'll see is people - do you know,  in the next two or three weeks, Karl, we're going to pass the 2 million household mark who have got solar on the roofs? So, I've got no doubt this is the future and we're going to start steering the nation to the future and work with Aussie families.
Let's just see, and I think it's not just Julie Bishop, to be fair to Ms Bishop. She shouldn't have to carry the can for the whole of the Liberal Party as she's had to.
What's going on in the property market at the moment is the banks are restricting credit. It's unrelated to our policy.
First of all, the election hasn't been held.
So, we're committed to our reforms to make our budget sustainable.
Well, let's sort out population, cost of living, workers’ rights, build a strong economy to make it work in the interest of everyone - 
Only one leader in this country has done a deal with Clive Palmer.
Well, that will be up to the people of Australia, but I think our message is one which resonates. It is the same message that Dan Andrews offered in Victoria - better hospitals, better schools.
Well, there's no doubt that it's going to take a while, but we've got to start. I think renewable energy and climate change is something where the Australian people are so far ahead of the politicians it's not funny.
Found inside a shining stalk of bamboo by an old bamboo cutter and his wife, a tiny girl grows rapidly into an exquisite young lady. The mysterious young princess enthralls all who encounter her - but ultimately she must confront her fate, the punishment for her crime.
Well first of all, just on this issue of grandfathering, you are quite right, when it comes to negative gearing all of the people currently negatively geared will not be affected and you’ll still be able to negatively gear your houses…
The fact that bank said this tells me a couple of things.  It tells me the biggest drop in housing prices has happened under the Coalition Government.
A young couple living in a Connecticut suburb during the mid-1950s struggle to come to terms with their personal problems while trying to raise their two children. Based on a novel by Richard Yates.
Yes, we've got to have more diversity in our media, got to hear more voices, can't just be the same old couple of large media companies in Australia. We've got to have more diversity.
In terms of national security?
This all-female horror anthology features four dark tales from four fiercely talented women.
Lovely, cheerio.
Well, it is certainly easier said than done, but we have got to do it. I don't think most Australians waking up this morning realise that some corporations and some high net wealthy - very wealthy, wealthy individuals are dodging about $5 billion in tax over the next ten years by basically going to tax havens.
I think there's a lot more water to go under the bridge but the real issue here in terms of Australians and why it matters to the everyday voter, is that you have the Minister for Home Affairs, a very important person, making very important decisions, there shouldn't be any Constitutional cloud over his eligibility to make those decisions, and I think that the Government needs to just clear the issue up.
Well, it has caused havoc and some can argue the rule is outmoded but it wouldn't be my immediate priority. I think politicians just need to get their house in order and get their eligibility sorted out.
Yes it is disappointing Lisa. It's not the way the arrangements are meant to work.
When this government, when the current Prime Minister was the loyal Treasurer, of the previous Prime Minister - if you believe that I've got a bridge to sell you - but anyway, when the Prime Minister was the Treasurer, when the current Treasurer was the former Environment Minister and when Malcolm Turnbull was still on top, they said the National Energy Guarantee would deliver $550 in lower household prices on energy. The numbers we're using, are the numbers the experts are given, they're the publicly available numbers, and they're in some cases, Malcolm Turnbull's own numbers.
Oh back in the 80s mate, but neither government has managed to produce a surplus - the Coalition hasn't managed to produce a surplus since they've been in power this time around.
My preference is questions from the audience, just direct. The media, of course, should be invited, they can film the interplay.
Of course we want people to get off the dole and get a job. But you know, this sort of simple view that you either starve people in order to make them get off the dole, it's just not as straightforward as that.
Undercover Las Vegas police officer Vincent Downs is caught in a high stakes web of corrupt cops and the mob-controlled casino underground. When a heist goes wrong, a crew of homicidal gangsters kidnaps Downs’ teenage son. In one sleepless night he will have to rescue his son, evade an internal affairs investigation and bring the kidnappers to justice.
Well, far be it from me to judge the Turnbull legacy but I think that this is another opportunity that he missed. I do think that we need a national anti-corruption commission, so I give a tick to my colleagues in the Labor Party for pushing that.
Nada, a wanderer without meaning in his life, discovers a pair of sunglasses capable of showing the world the way it truly is. As he walks the streets of Los Angeles, Nada notices that both the media and the government are comprised of subliminal messages meant to keep the population subdued, and that most of the social elite are skull-faced aliens bent on world domination. With this shocking discovery, Nada fights to free humanity from the mind-controlling aliens.
A newly possessed cheerleader turns into a killer who specializes in offing her male classmates. Can her best friend put an end to the horror?
Yes, we will, we will support boat turn backs where it's safe to do so, which is existing policy.  
Yeah you're right, we did want to see it but the problem is Mr Turnbull couldn't even bring it to the Parliament and we encouraged him to, we thought this was a good thing to do but this is the big problem in Australia and I didn't want to talk too much about my opponents. But the Liberal Party in Australia has lost the ability to say anything other than no.
Babe is a little pig who doesn't quite know his place in the world. With a bunch of odd friends, like Ferdinand the duck who thinks he is a rooster and Fly the dog he calls mom, Babe realizes that he has the makings to become the greatest sheep pig of all time, and Farmer Hogget knows it. With the help of the sheep dogs Babe learns that a pig can be anything that he wants to be.
Listen, our immigration is one issue but let's talk about the failure of politics. The reason why I went back in detail to the history of an outer ring railway in Melbourne is we've been debating this for 130 years - that's the failure of politics.
That's our aim and the point about it, but just to come to that, we do need to see what numbers the Government have got. I know people get sick of politics but this Government is going to bring down a Budget on April 2 and then rush off to an election.
Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt return as heads of the Baker family who, while on vacation, find themselves in competition with a rival family of eight children, headed by Eugene Levy,
Well it’s a matter of priorities. This is the truth in Australia at the moment.
The parents of a soon-to-be married couple make the final preparations for the wedding ceremony.
Well if I can put it really directly, do people want a government or do they want a piece of plasticine. Do people want a government with tax principles and fairness at their core or do they just want  a lump of political putty.
Listen, I don't want to get into a debate about the facts, but your last statement is 100 per cent wrong. We've made it clear that any pensioner who's in receipt of a part pension is not affected by our changes, so you can't say - I mean, you can, but it's just not right, when you say that pensioners are going to be affected, that's just not correct.
Well, sorry, no, it’s actually been shown that over time when you pay for less petrol, it actually costs less. But I agree, at the moment the models are expensive, but this isn’t all about what happens next week and it’s not all about trying to take someone’s ute off them.
Because I've never forgotten the men I met there and their families, never forgotten them. They taught me a lot about resilience.
A tough Russian policeman is forced to partner up with a cocky Chicago police detective when he is sent to Chicago to apprehend a Georgian drug lord who killed his partner and fled the country.
dodgeball. Aided by a dodgeball guru and Goodman's attorney, La Fleur and his rag-tag team of underdogs launch a knock-down, drag-out battle in which the winner takes all.
Three detectives in the corrupt and brutal L.A. police force of the 1950s use differing methods to uncover a conspiracy behind the shotgun slayings of the patrons at an all-night diner.
Ms McGowan has always said she's concerned about all of the people in detention, not just the kids. But I’m not going to put any more pressure on her, I’ll leave that to the government.
I'll certainly be watching Four Corners and I thought one of your panellist's comments that maybe the Government was anticipating a pretty tough story, I'll be watching that.
Listen I'm not going to get - sorry, there's only one person who has ever been resurrected and I'm not going to compare Clive Palmer to him. The point about it is, I'm not going to get distracted by Clive Palmer.
I don't have that view. I have made the practice over five years now of not commenting on the polls - good, bad or indifferent.
Well all of the research we've seen and the evidence - between 60 and 90 per cent, I mean you heard that right. I don't own shares in a battery company or a solar company, I'm just interested in getting household power bills down.
In a dystopian near future, single people, according to the laws of The City, are taken to The Hotel, where they are obliged to find a romantic partner in forty-five days or are transformed into beasts and sent off into The Woods.
Absolutely we do, and I certainly think the decision -  because it should be for the new government whoever they are, Liberal or Labor 
See you guys. Thank you.
It will work cooperatively and constructively. I always had the view, back from my days representing workers in negotiations with employers, that no one has got a monopoly on having all the good ideas.
Thank you very much.
No, that wouldn't be right. What we want to do is have real change, because, frankly, more of the same under this government isn't good enough for Australians -
We're going to stick to our existing policies. It's just not fair for our younger generation to not be able to afford their first home when the Government of the day is giving a tax subsidy to property investors to buy their fifth or sixth.
One thousand years after cataclysmic events forced humanity's escape from Earth, Nova Prime has become mankind's new home. Legendary General Cypher Raige returns from an extended tour of duty to his estranged family, ready to be a father to his 13-year-old son, Kitai. When an asteroid storm damages Cypher and Kitai's craft, they crash-land on a now unfamiliar and dangerous Earth. As his father lies dying in the cockpit, Kitai must trek across the hostile terrain to recover their rescue beacon. His whole life, Kitai has wanted nothing more than to be a soldier like his father. Today, he gets his chance.
An extraordinarily intelligent young girl from a cruel and uncaring family discovers she possesses telekinetic powers and is sent off to a school headed by a tyrannical principal.
Cheers.
Yes, I was pleased. I was pleased for the work of Dan Andrews and his team, nothing should take way from their success.
Cal Weaver is living the American dream. He has a good job, a beautiful house, great children and a beautiful wife, named Emily. Cal's seemingly perfect life unravels, however, when he learns that Emily has been unfaithful and wants a divorce. Over 40 and suddenly single, Cal is adrift in the fickle world of dating. Enter, Jacob Palmer, a self-styled player who takes Cal under his wing and teaches him how to be a hit with the ladies.
Oh no I don’t accept that, I accept that what we are doing is creating fairness.
Of course not. I just thought it was wrong and so, that was only a tiny taste.
Politicians out, independent transparent process in.
Oh Hamish, I think there is a little bit of excitement in your heart, you just need to find it. Only a little though, let's not really debate that.
I don’t think any of us that extreme weather events are getting less frequent, are they?
I've tried to ring her to find out what she meant but I think to be fair to Labor her comments have come after the last week of Liberal infighting. I do think that anyone who is feeling bullied has a right to a safe workplace.
First of all, there's what happens before an election. I don't know, Barrie, I think that a lot of people think that despite the press releases coming out of Adani, there's more hype than substance - and history would tend to indicate that.
Well, you know and I know, Fran, that if we don't have the numbers, it can't be done. But what that means in the meantime is that we're jeopardising the authority's cases against 16,000 people - many of whom are alleged to be criminals from us being able to take action.
I will let the review look at all of those issues, that is a legitimate issue. I think that some conservatives say that you should only be temporarily unemployed therefore keep it low and that way it gives incentive for people to get off it, but I don't think keeping it so low actually achieves anything other than is unfair to people very down on their luck.
Well, the Government is playing catch up with Labor in terms of putting more money back into the Catholic schools system.
A dramatic thriller based on the incredible true David vs. Goliath story of American immigrant Dr. Bennet Omalu, the brilliant forensic neuropathologist who made the first discovery of CTE, a football-related brain trauma, in a pro player and fought for the truth to be known. Omalu's emotional quest puts him at dangerous odds with one of the most powerful institutions in the world.
Well, you'd have to say that we're on board somewhat reluctantly. There are some positives in this arrangement, no doubt.
6-year-old Susan Walker has doubts about childhood's most enduring miracle—Santa Claus. Her mother told her the 'secret' about Santa a long time ago, but, after meeting a special department store Santa who's convinced he's the real thing, Susan is given the most precious gift of all—something to believe in.
After defeating Frieza, Goku returns to Earth and goes on a camping trip with Gohan and Krillin. Everything is normal until Cooler - Frieza's brother - sends three henchmen after Goku. A long fight ensues between our heroes and Cooler, in which he transforms into the fourth stage of his evolution and has the edge in the fight... until Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan.
We will once we have announced all of our policies. That will be very soon.
On the run in the year 1987, Bumblebee finds refuge in a junkyard in a small Californian beach town. Charlie, on the cusp of turning 18 and trying to find her place in the world, discovers Bumblebee, battle-scarred and broken.  When Charlie revives him, she quickly learns this is no ordinary yellow VW bug.
I think you'd be fair enough to acknowledge that then, Adani didn't get the finance but now they appear to have got the finance. The other thing of course back then is they were talking about a 60 million tonne mine with 10,000 jobs.
That's an issue for a plebiscite. 
That's alright.
When a madman dubbed 'Scorpio' terrorizes San Francisco, hard-nosed cop, Harry Callahan – famous for his take-no-prisoners approach to law enforcement – is tasked with hunting down the psychopath. Harry eventually collars Scorpio in the process of rescuing a kidnap victim, only to see him walk on technicalities. Now, the maverick detective is determined to nail the maniac himself.
Nicky, a veteran con artist, takes a novice named Jess under his wing. While Nicky teaches Jess the tricks of the trade, the pair become romantically involved; but, when Jess gets uncomfortably close, Nicky ends their relationship. Three years later, Nicky is in Buenos Aires working a very dangerous scheme when Jess -- now an accomplished femme fatale -- unexpectedly shows up. Her appearance throws Nicky for a loop at a time when he cannot afford to be off his game.
Well, I've got a general rule in life that you’re always better talking than having a standoff. It would be better if the leaders turned up.
Yes, let's do that, Leigh. That would be great.
Well I  think that successive governments over the decades have tried to tackle this issue of big cities being overcrowded. How do we get immigrants to go to the bush? Now, what I have said to Scott Morrison is, let's take this issue out of the political colosseum, the political bear-pit, let's work together.
The thing giving people smuggler's the best encouragement in 2018 is the constant billboard which the Government do when they say, oh if Labor gets elected, which is possible at the next election, they are egging the people smuggler's on to try their hand again. It is the Government who constantly say "oh well, if it's not us then the people smugglers will be back in business.
We had a bus long before Scott had it, and we've even been on the bus!
After a mysterious global crisis, a young girl is left alone to hide from a malevolent power that stalks her home. Her parents eventually return and the struggle begins to save their daughter.
Yeah, and I said I'd come to that issue. I said there are two issues.
BSAA Chris Redfield enlists the help of government agent Leon S. Kennedy and Professor Rebecca Chambers from Alexander Institute of Biotechnology to stop a death merchant with a vengeance from spreading a deadly virus in New York.
No, I'm not obsessed by the polls. I've never thought that the election was a foregone conclusion.
That's where the political debate should be - the best ideas 
We are up for reviewing it and we want to review it positively. 
High School student David Lightman (Matthew Broderick) has a talent for hacking. But while trying to hack into a computer system to play unreleased video games, he unwittingly taps into the Defense Department's war computer and initiates a confrontation of global proportions! Together with his girlfriend (Ally Sheedy) and a wizardly computer genius (John Wood), David must race against time to outwit his opponent...and prevent a nuclear Armageddon.
I'm confident, based on the economic reforms that we've engaged in in Opposition, that we will a very positive position on surplus over the four years, and a much better position than the Liberals over the 10 years, because we're winding back unsustainable tax subsidies at the top end, which in fact the Government want to keep.
It will be a matter for the legal system to proceed, he should receive the support any other Australian citizens should receive, the matter is going before court so I don't think there is much more I can add.
Actually, first things first - I am not going to spend my time bagging the current Prime Minister. What I would say, is focus on properly funding the schools and the hospitals.
Well a good analogy I've always used because when I was a union rep sometimes we'd have to have change in workplaces was quite often  I saw corporate leaders say to everyone - use the analogy of a railway station - you're at railway station A and the corporate leaders would say righto to the workforce, you've got to get to railway station B. 
When the evil wizard Gargamel chases the tiny blue Smurfs out of their village, they tumble from their magical world and into ours -- in fact, smack dab in the middle of Central Park. Just three apples high and stuck in the Big Apple, the Smurfs must find a way to get back to their village before Gargamel tracks them down.
There's a point of difference but not the one he's claiming to make. I think after five years this Government should be ashamed of the fact that there are still people on Manus and Nauru and they haven't been resettled.
After proving himself on the field of battle in the French and Indian War, Benjamin Martin wants nothing more to do with such things, preferring the simple life of a farmer. But when his son Gabriel enlists in the army to defend their new nation, America, against the British, Benjamin reluctantly returns to his old life to protect his son.
Well I don't buy what you are selling there, but I will go to this point, I did say that I don't comment on polls - good or bad, but if Mr Morrison, if he thinks that he is doing really well at the moment go and ask his Victorian colleagues. Georgie, what matters is elections and I think on Saturday we saw a big tick for Dan Andrews but also Labor's brand - backing in the schools, backing in the hospitals, getting on with the job not the cuts, the chaos, the division, the scare tactics.
Well, I've known Scott Ryan for some period of time. He is a very sort of sensible considered Liberal.
But we got the right outcome. That day, in front of the State Library was awesome.
Slightly disturbed and painfully shy Angela Baker is sent away to summer camp with her cousin. Not long after Angela's arrival, things start to go horribly wrong for anyone with sinister or less than honorable intentions.
Well, some people say that to me. But with the division and the instability of the government, the fact that the Liberals sacked Malcolm Turnbull nine weeks ago, then they have got to send him to Bali to clean up the new Prime Minister's foreign policy mess, the chaos has got to end.
Yes, I understand that linkage. But what I want to make clear and they are two separate issues.
Up to $2000, yeah.
I'd say that my view on this mine is going to be based on the best science, whether or not it stacks up, and if it is, if it stacks up and passes all the scientific tests, I won't engage in sovereign risk. So in other words we won't arbitrarily upend things.
An eternal romantic falls in love with the girl his father has decided to get him married to, but will his past love affair prove to be a problem?
Well he already is and this is the real heart of the issue. When you get an income tax credit, when you haven't paid income tax, it's a gift from the Government.
Sorry just to correct, when you say controversial, some in the property industry don't like negative gearing changes but a lot of people actually do like it.
Well we've had plenty of administrative heads of the Labor Party who haven't ended up in Parliament. The point about it, in answering your question is that he wasn't able to convince the Labor Party to back him, and it's a free country, if he wants to run for any party, I guess being in a party, that's up to him who he chooses, if he wants to change his views.
But we don't take this election for granted at all. 
Yeah, I accept that some of the unions would rather that we handled it in a different way –
I'd say that's wrong. Our position's very clear.
An Israeli counterterrorism soldier with a secretly fabulous ambition to become a Manhattan hairstylist. Zohan's desire runs so deep that he'll do anything -- including faking his own death and going head-to-head with an Arab cab driver -- to make his dreams come true.
Let's go to Citibank, they're an internationally reputable bank. They say that the consequences in terms of cost, of policies on climate change like ours are immaterial.
Cab driver Max picks up a man who offers him $600 to drive him around. But the promise of easy money sours when Max realizes his fare is an assassin.
Well, if they have a surplus we think this is a good thing but it's because there's increased taxation on companies. The Government can take some pleasure from the surplus but the reason why we will have a surplus is because Australian corporations are paying more company tax.
The infamous story of Benjamin Barker, a.k.a Sweeney Todd, who sets up a barber shop down in London which is the basis for a sinister partnership with his fellow tenant, Mrs. Lovett. Based on the hit Broadway musical.
A young boy whose parents just divorced finds an unlikely friend and mentor in the misanthropic, bawdy, hedonistic, war veteran who lives next door.
Well I have to let the Caucus members have a say, I don't run a top-down organisation, but I think personally Pat Dodson is an outstanding Australian, an outstanding West Australian. I personally approached him to run for the Senate and you know any room that he is in everyone else in the room always feel a bit better because he is such a significant father of reconciliation.
We will do that closer to the election but suffice to say we have done our maths and we are able to pay for the promises we are making. Once we have revealed all of our promises, then we will reveal the costings to back it up.
Hope so, see you.
We want to try and get things done in the Parliament - that's why we're going to keep pushing for a national anti-corruption commission. Labor supports having a national anti-corruption commission.
Well, I just hope that the treating medical advice gets taken seriously. You know, there have been some children coming here anyway.
Yeah, sure. 
Oh no you're right. It was five years ago and eight years ago and we've learned our lesson though.
Well, first of all, it's publicly available, now if we're saying, the campaign against climate change by this government is malicious and stupid. It's malicious because there are elements of this government, the right wing, who have undermined even people in the Liberal Party to take action on climate change, and whenever we talk about common sense on climate change, you just get a scare campaign run by the more extreme elements - just hang on- this is really important, cause climate change is an important issue in this election, and it's a malicious campaign by this government.
No. And let's just be clear on that.
It's not a simple yes or no issue. If we can take people in based upon our infrastructure, based upon the moving to the regions that's a plus.
I don't know if he is back from Bali yet, with the old mop, cleaning up Mr Morrison's problems. But no, I'm going trick or treating.
We're up for that. I mean people are sick of just the negativity.
Well I made the decision, when they first proposed having the plebiscite I thought it was the wrong process, I thought it was an abdication of leadership but then I thought why on earth should we let some Australians go through this process on their own. And so that's why we decided to strongly encourage participation because we couldn't leave people on their own.
A group of students become trapped inside a mysterious cave where they discover time passes differently underground than on the surface.
In danger of losing his business, Anthony Roca, an ordinary man, develops a scam that will become the heist of the century. Overtaken by the crime, he will have to deal with betrayal, murder and settling.
Well I don't hold the children responsible for the mistakes of their parents. You know I don't know all the circumstances but I can understand why a grandmother wants to see her grandchildren safe at home.
Six years have elapsed since Guantanamo Bay, leaving Harold and Kumar estranged from one another with very different families, friends and lives. But when Kumar arrives on Harold's doorstep during the holiday season with a mysterious package in hand, he inadvertently burns down Harold's father-in-law's beloved Christmas tree. To fix the problem, Harold and Kumar embark on a mission through New York City to find the perfect Christmas tree, once again stumbling into trouble at every single turn.
Well the Government sets great store on these matters. It is important we have secure borders but the irony of a boat arriving whilst the former Immigration Minister was competing against the current Home Affairs Minister is not lost on anyone I think.
There couldn't have been anyone who was committing me to a preference deal. No, not aware of that.
Well I actually think that people want to look beyond the next opinion poll to what are we going to do for them and their families. The reason why I want to be Prime Minister Monique, is I want Australia to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received from our parents.
Kit, a troubled girl, is sent to the exclusive Blackwood boarding school, where she discovers that only four other female students have been admitted to learn the four pillars of knowledge under the ominous wing of the mysterious headmistress Madame Duret.
Well, fair's fair. In the six years that the current government have been in, Labor has been united.
A tormented jazz musician finds himself lost in an enigmatic story involving murder, surveillance, gangsters, doppelgangers, and an impossible transformation inside a prison cell.
OK let's go through each of those three points very briefly. There is a cost to Australian business when wage earners are experiencing wage stagnation.
A look behind the scenes at Bernie Madoff's massive Ponzi scheme, how it was perpetrated on the public and the trail of destruction it left in its wake, both for the victims and Madoff's family.
You've got to tell people where they fit in. Change is not too hard but you do have to make sure that you don't leave people behind.
Rachel Keller must prevent evil Samara from taking possession of her son's soul.
No the deal has to stack up on its own merits. I do not support putting a single dollar of taxpayer money into this project.
Well first of all, the issue of climate change has been getting away from Australia for the last ten years. The people of Australia are fed up with politics.
we are grandfathering our proposals. Most people don't know quite what grandfathering means.
A naive young man assumes a dead man's identity and finds himself embroiled in an underground world of power, violence, and chance where men gamble behind closed doors on the lives of other men.
Based on the classic novel by Orson Scott Card, Ender's Game is the story of the Earth's most gifted children training to defend their homeplanet in the space wars of the future.
Well what we can do is we can make sure that if we are going to provide some support for the wages of early childhood educators, again we will say to the operators if Labor is providing some modest improvement in the wages of childhood educators, if Labor is providing a couple of thousand dollars a year for parents, what we say to the childcare operators is you don't get to pocket that. We want childcare to be sustainable, we want cost of living to be tackled and we want to see that the people working in the industry get a fair deal.
Well, first of all let's look at where the house prices have fallen. They've fallen under this government.
our tax system is making it harder for our young ones, our millennials, the younger people to be able to even buy their first home. We have got to start creating a level playing field.
Well, but are they Jon when you think about the issue that Australians haven't voted for Scott Morrison. In fact, I think Mr Morrison owes the Australian people a detailed explanation of why last week happened.
I'm not going to give the Government a blank cheque. We need to see what their final distribution recommendation is to the States.
A paranoia-fueled action thriller about an unsuccessful writer whose life is transformed by a top-secret "smart drug" that allows him to use 100% of his brain and become a perfect version of himself. His enhanced abilities soon attract shadowy forces that threaten his new life in this darkly comic and provocative film.
Rodney Copperbottom is a young robot inventor who dreams of making the world a better place, until the evil Ratchet takes over Big Weld Industries. Now, Rodney's dreams – and those of his friends – are in danger of becoming obsolete.
Well, the Solicitor General's advice that they had, that broadly said that the better view that the Solicitor-General thought was that Mr Joyce was eligible, but they didn't give that categorical assurance and that's the same here. The Solicitor-General is saying that, listen, they think that Minister Dutton is okay, but I wouldn't want to be trying to get a bank loan based on the certainty of that advice of the Solicitor General.
No, not at all. There is still another perhaps up to five months before the election.
we won't be spending as a company director, money chasing votes when they need to go to repay the taxpayers and the workers what they are owed to begin with. It's about priorities.
Well, prices go up and prices go down. It really depends if you're trying to buy or sell a house.
The story of a young man who arrives in Hollywood during the 1930s hoping to work in the film industry, falls in love, and finds himself swept up in the vibrant café society that defined the spirit of the age.
Set in the Depression-era Franklin County, Virginia, a bootlegging gang is threatened by authorities who want a cut of their profits.
That's right.
Seen-it-all New York detective Frank Keller is unsettled - he has done twenty years on the force and could retire, and he hasn't come to terms with his wife leaving him for a colleague. Joining up with an officer from another part of town to investigate a series of murders linked by the lonely hearts columns he finds he is getting seriously and possibly dangerously involved with Helen, one of the main suspects.
We will only ever give you facts - important facts. 
We're certainly more progressive than the current government in Canberra. Listen, I'll let our actions speak for ourselves rather than me put tags on how we will be as a government, my aim is to get elected first but what I can promise Australians is for example, if you've got a three or four year old we'll make sure they get access to kindergarten for free.
Well first of all, full credit to Daniel Andrews and the State Labor Government. They submitted their record and got a renewed mandate, a bigger mandate, so nothing takes away from that.
A fairy tale love-story about pre-med student Paige who falls in love with a Danish Prince "Eddie" who refused to follow the traditions of his parents and has come to the US to quench his thirst for rebellion. Paige and Edward come from two different worlds, but there is an undeniable attraction between them.
So I've had a day off the bus and I'll go back on the bus on Monday.
We will have a good look at them. We have backed 15 sets of changes.
Oh yes.
Look forward to it, cheerio.
A college-age brother and sister get more than they bargained for on their road trip home from spring break. When the bickering siblings witness a creepy truck driver tossing body bags into a sewer near an abandoned church, they investigate. Bad move! Opening a Pandora's Box of unspeakable evil, the pair must flee for their lives -- with a monstrous "shape" in hot pursuit.
Not at all, it depends if you want federal tax money or not. 
The problem with what you're saying is that you assume that there's no cost to doing nothing, and there is. That's why Australians wants real change at this election.
Well, the fact of the matter is we are arguing for a change in Australia. We don't want to - I mean, I think this Government is disgraceful in that they are offering a thread-bare policy agenda.
The Nazis, exasperated at the number of escapes from their prison camps by a relatively small number of Allied prisoners, relocates them to a high-security 'escape-proof' camp to sit out the remainder of the war. Undaunted, the prisoners plan one of the most ambitious escape attempts of World War II. Based on a true story.
A high school swim champion with a troubled past enrolls in the U.S. Coast Guard's 'A' School, where legendary rescue swimmer, Ben Randall teaches him some hard lessons about loss, love, and self-sacrifice.
I think there is a bit of a difference there Baz. First of all, what we are saying is that in workplace relations, just one set of laws.
Any questions about this or other matters?
I always enjoy talking to you guys. 
Yeah, but do you know what? For the last six years we have been debating the Liberals. We are talking to the people.
That will be up to the Australian people, Georgie but if I am, I won't let you or the Australian people down. We're going to focus on the people, not on ourselves.
If you're asking me to specify what a particular company in a particular factory will have to do, I can't do that, nor could you, nor can the Government. 
Hang on, you have five questions there. Let's do them one at a time.
There comes a point in everyone’s life when you have to make a decision about the direction you’re going to take. For newly-18 American fashion model Cora, that time is now. She’s moved to an Australian coastal town to be with her favourite aunt, after a 'fashion faux pas’ back home.
Steve Ford is a private detective in Venice Beach, Calif., who's good with the ladies, bad with the punches and wild about his dog Buddy. When local thugs steal Buddy, Ford turns to Spyder, their devious leader, and forges an unlikely alliance. With help from his best friend, Steve pulls out the big guns to retrieve Spyder's stolen cash and cocaine and save Buddy.
A long-lost music producer finds a singer-songwriter right about the moment he has given up all hope on life.
Let's say it as it is, the Australian people are so far ahead of the politicians on renewable energy it's not a joke but what I am going to do if we get elected is we're backing renewables, we're backing the batteries, we want people to get between a 60 and 90 per cent reduction off their household bills. That's what you get over the lifetime of installing batteries and solar.
Being one of 101 takes its toll on Patch, who doesn't feel unique. When he's accidentally left behind on moving day, he meets his idol, Thunderbolt, who enlists him on a publicity campaign.
No, that doesn't mean that people never talk to me but listen I think that what we've got to do is - the media plays an important role, people are entitled to their opinions.
A Muslim ambassador exiled from his homeland, Ahmad ibn Fadlan finds himself in the company of Vikings. While the behavior of the Norsemen initially offends ibn Fadlan, the more cultured outsider grows to respect the tough, if uncouth, warriors. During their travels together, ibn Fadlan and the Vikings get word of an evil presence closing in, and they must fight the frightening and formidable force, which was previously thought to exist only in legend.
It won't have an appreciable impact on the price of housing.
I can understand why Malcolm might say that but I have to say when you're Labor and you deal with some of the critique in the media you don't let it distract you from what's important.
I think he should receive consular assistance beyond that, I don't know all the facts of the matter and he should deserve the ability to be able to represent it in court which he will be.
I think we're competitive but we're not arrogant. When I come to Western Australia I don't look at Liberal Western Australians and Labor Western Australians or you know, Independent Western Australians - I just see Western Australians.
Well, we'd have to see the numbers and decide if we wanted to do that. But in light of this announcement, let me just say, I think Dan Andrews is on the right track -
When Sarah Marshall dumps aspiring musician Peter Bretter for rock star Aldous Snow, Peter's world comes crashing down. His best friend suggests that Peter should get away from everything and to fly off to Hawaii to escape all his problems. After arriving in Hawaii and meeting the beautiful Rachel Jansen, Peter is shocked to see not only Aldous Snow in Hawaii, but also Sarah Marshall.
A Victorian surgeon rescues a heavily disfigured man being mistreated by his "owner" as a side-show freak. Behind his monstrous façade, there is revealed a person of great intelligence and sensitivity. Based on the true story of Joseph Merrick (called John Merrick in the film), a severely deformed man in 19th century London.
Oscar Diggs, a small-time circus illusionist and con-artist, is whisked from Kansas to the Land of Oz where the inhabitants assume he's the great wizard of prophecy, there to save Oz from the clutches of evil.
A wife questions her life choices as she travels to Stockholm with her husband, where he is slated to receive the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Well first of all you know that we’ve offered Channel Nine the opportunity to do it through the Press Club. You have declined.
Nothing at all, all I'm saying is that when we talk about fiscal management what happens in Australia is that it's not the politicians who drive for good fiscal outcomes in Australia it is the companies, it's the people who go to work. 
Well, you keep going on cost. I want to say to you let's get this straight.
Thank you. In terms of the treatment of the children on Nauru, I have been watching very carefully what the AMA have been saying.
No. You know I did the shopping today in Moonee Ponds where I live and people were saying bring on the Federal Election, and some people would say that Labor has it in the bag, Idon't think that at all.
In this animated retelling of the story from the Bible's Book of Genesis, Joseph's gift of dream interpretation and his brilliantly colored coat inspires jealousy in his brothers.
A former Secret Service agent grudgingly takes an assignment to protect a pop idol who's threatened by a crazed fan. At first, the safety-obsessed bodyguard and the self-indulgent diva totally clash. But before long, all that tension sparks fireworks of another sort, and the love-averse tough guy is torn between duty and romance.
Well he couldn't even bring it to the Parliament.
In 2019, Lincoln Six-Echo is a resident of a seemingly "Utopian" but contained facility. Like all of the inhabitants of this carefully-controlled environment, Lincoln hopes to be chosen to go to The Island — reportedly the last uncontaminated location on the planet. But Lincoln soon discovers that everything about his existence is a lie.
In an attempt to free himself from a state of forgotten limbo, evil dream-demon Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) devises a plan to manipulate un-dead mass murderer Jason Voorhees (Ken Kirzenger) into slicing-and-dicing his way through the teenage population of Springwood.  But when the master of dreams loses control of his monster, a brutal fight to the death is the only way out in this long anticipated crossover between two of modern horror's most notorious killers!
An  U.S. Spaceship lands on a desolate planet, stranding astronaut Taylor in a world dominated by apes, 2000 years into the future, who use a primitive race of humans for experimentation and sport. Soon Taylor finds himself among the hunted, his life in the hands of a benevolent chimpanzee scientist.
A woman turns to prescription medication as a way of handling her anxiety concerning her husband's upcoming release from prison.
Well, we'll be pursuing it. It really depends on what sort of pressure the government has brought on the crossbenchers.
Yes it's good. It's really good.
Thanks guys.
No. Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand, the Labour Prime Minister there, went to a series of countries on provisions which a conservative government had signed up to, and executed letters with those countries and both countries agreed not to go ahead with that.
It's always possible to get airtime if you're willing to say silly things but if you want to have a strong, sensible, centrist debate and this is what Mr Turnbull perhaps missed the opportunity to do, he came in with a lot of good will, is you have to lead but you can lead from the centre. You don't have to say extreme things to get things done.
No. What we're going to do is prioritise, and I'll give you the key features of what we're doing.
A getaway driver for a bank robbery realizes he has been double crossed and races to find out who betrayed him.
Well, maybe - but he hasn't moved to embassy either, so - 
No, no, hang on, Leigh. You keep characterising my policies -
Fairness. We think that Australia Day is about Australian values.
No, no. Let's -
Mind you, I didn't think they'd roll Malcolm, so what would I know. 
Sorry what was the last bit of your question?
Mowgli has been living in the man-village with his little stepbrother Ranjan and his best friend Shanti. But the man-cub still has that jungle rhythm in his heart, and he misses his old buddies Baloo and Bagheera. When Mowgli wanders back to the wild for some swingin' fun, he soon finds the man-eating tiger Shere Khan is lurking in the shadows and planning his revenge.
The action-packed and captivating tale of Dee Renjie's beginnings in the Imperial police force. His very first case, investigating reports of a sea monster terrorizing the town, reveals a sinister conspiracy of treachery and betrayal, leading to the highest reaches of the Imperial family.
First of all, the first conversation I had for him was to thank him for his service to the nation. I've spoken to former Prime Ministers Rudd and Gillard, I've spoken to John Howard on occasion, I've spoken to Tony Abbott.
I think it is a range, I don't think it's one stereotype at all. You get people who are older who, the factory closes, they are thrown all of a sudden on the scrap heap and told they are not worth something.
In terms of the commercial high jump bar, yeah they've passed that.
Perhaps if you bear with me for a moment, I'll answer your question. 
And did you know since then - what is it? 5,420 marriages have occurred. That's good.
A young soldier faces profound disillusionment in the soul-destroying horror of World War I. Together with several other young German soldiers, he experiences the horrors of war, such evil of which he had not conceived of when signing up to fight. They eventually become sad, tormented, and confused of their purpose.
To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate believes three year old child care is a political conspiracy. To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate is a supporting a 12 per cent corporate tax rate, which is a massive tax cut for the big end of town.
When Russia's first nuclear submarine malfunctions on its maiden voyage, the crew must race to save the ship and prevent a nuclear disaster.
I enjoyed the debate.
We can legislate to restore the penalty rates on Sundays and public holidays that have been cut. We can also put in place measures which will encourage closing the gender pay gap.
Well, let’s go back to this. When you give a tax credit to someone who is not paying income tax, that is a gift.
Well no, Fran, what I'm not going to do is engage in that debate. But what I'll say to you, Fran, is if the Liberal Party thinks that on Monday, as we approach the last two weeks of Parliament, they're doing really well - well then, I've got a bridge over the mouth of Yarra I want to sell 'em.
Julian, who runs a Thai boxing club as a front organization for his family's drug smuggling operation, is forced by his mother Crystal to find and kill the individual responsible for his brother's recent death.
We haven't finalised our position, but I think that the unions and indeed a lot of people from the Reserve Bank onwards, are all saying that everything is going up in Australia except wages. The system is not working in that what is happening is that corporate profits are going up, some people are doing very well thank you very much.
Young Shakespeare is forced to stage his latest comedy, "Romeo and Ethel, the Pirate's Daughter," before it's even written. When a lovely noblewoman auditions for a role, they fall into forbidden love -- and his play finds a new life (and title). As their relationship progresses, Shakespeare's comedy soon transforms into tragedy.
It is up to them. 
The Liberals are lying about tax. I don't want to talk too much about it.
Well come along to Box Hill today where we’re going to talk more about how we are going to look after early childhood educators. Early childhood educators, it is a 96 per cent female dominated industry.
Well, my absolute conviction and belief, is that if we don't change, then the cost will be far greater than any initial investments.
How does that help keep us safe and strong?
Sure.
Well Mr Morrison will have to call an election in the next five months, they have to. What we're going to do is take nothing for granted, the people haven't voted yet.
In the year 50 BC, Gaul is occupied by the Romans - nearly. But the small village of Asterix and his friends still resists the Roman legions with the aid of their druid's magic potion, which gives superhuman strength. Learning of this potion, a Roman centurion kidnaps the druid to get the secret formula out of him.
Well first of all, we think that the Commonwealth and the politicians should have an anti-corruption commission. We want it to be a body which is created by law, that it is independent of government.
Good on you, Karl. Have a lovely day.
Well, you made a preamble to this question. I have answered questions on climate change many times, many times.
Sarah, you know, it’s about time we buried the sausage scandal of 2016. I did eat it sideways but, you know I had very good reasons.
No, what we are able to do is we are prioritising schools and hospitals over creating richer multinationals and more tax minimisers in you know, Caribbean Islands. That's how we pay for our promises.
First of all it’s a silly policy and it’s a policy that isn't going to happen. In terms of the Greens, what I say to them next time they catch a tram - trams run on steel.
Well, there's two ingredients, aren't there? First of all, there's permanent migration. The current Prime Minister says that he will lower the cap from 190,000 to 160,000.
Well, I think Mr Porter's problem is that the Prime Minister who he supported for the last three years say's there a problem and for the sake of certainty, you're best off referring it to the High Court. 
You can't have it all ways, you can't say when will you tell people ..
No, I’m happy if you do. What car you choose to drive is your business.
Well that's going to be a matter for the state and federal regulators isn't it.
Oh no. Listen, you and I know that, and more importantly Australians know, this is a Government who is going to run on fear and negativity.
Do you know what? I think Mr Dutton should refer himself. 
Yeah, I was with the Australian Workers Union, I was the Victorian Secretary and I was involved in trying to protect the workforce from the unfair blame of the company and trying to make sense of what had happened. And I met some fabulous local workforce at Longford, some have passed, but some I hope to see today at Longford.
Well no, fair's fair. I do think that people are very disillusioned, but you can't mark me down because we're willing to properly fund education and just dismiss it as spin.
Listen, the Liberals are lying about taxes. Let's just call it as it is.
Well, what we'll do in our way is we’ll put more investment in the Territory. I get there's a legitimate concern to make sure that no one gets disadvantaged in GST, and it was Labor nationally, working with the McGowan Government in Western Australia, who ensured the West got their fair share.
Yes, I am confident that we have got positive policies and we don't need to go down the negative divisive path. One difference between me and the current Government - we are united.
Set in 1977, back when sex was safe, pleasure was a business and business was booming, idealistic porn producer Jack Horner aspires to elevate his craft to an art form. Horner discovers Eddie Adams, a hot young talent working as a busboy in a nightclub, and welcomes him into the extended family of movie-makers, misfits and hangers-on that are always around. Adams' rise from nobody to a celebrity adult entertainer is meteoric, and soon the whole world seems to know his porn alter ego, "Dirk Diggler". Now, when disco and drugs are in vogue, fashion is in flux and the party never seems to stop, Adams' dreams of turning sex into stardom are about to collide with cold, hard reality.
Good morning Edwina.
Not paying attention to his job, a young demon allows the evil cleansing machine to overflow and explode, turning the young demon into the infamous monster Janemba. Goku and Vegeta make solo attempts to defeat the monster, but realize their only option is fusion.
Well, there are positives in this agreement too, for our farmers, for our steel industry, for our higher education sector.
Well we've got to find out why it happened and what happened. I'm not going to leap to any conclusions.
Valerie is in love with a brooding outsider, Peter, but her parents have arranged for her to marry another man – who is wealthy. Unwilling to lose each other, Valerie and Peter plan to run away together when they learn that Valerie's older sister has been killed by a werewolf that prowls the dark forest surrounding their village. Hungry for revenge, the people call on famed werewolf hunter, Father Solomon, to help them kill the wolf. But Solomon's arrival brings unintended consequences as he warns that the wolf, who takes human form by day, could be any one of them.
A hotshot Washington criminal lawyer becomes the target of a rogue security executive videotaped in the act of murdering a congressman when the incriminating tape is surreptitiously slipped into his shopping bag by the videographer, who is fleeing the executive's assassins.
First of all on the pledge, no I am not going to sign it. But you can deduce from that nothing other than I am not going to sign a pledge.
Furious that her late father only willed her his gloomy-looking mansion rather than his millions, Carrigan Crittenden is ready to burn the place to the ground when she discovers a map to a treasure hidden in the house. But when she enters the rickety mansion to seek her claim, she is frightened away by a wicked wave of ghosts. Determined to get her hands on this hidden fortune, she hires afterlife therapist Dr. James Harvey to exorcise the ghosts from the mansion. Harvey and his daughter Kat move in, and soon Kat meets Casper, the ghost of a young boy who's "the friendliest ghost you know." But not so friendly are Casper's uncles--Stretch, Fatso and Stinkie--who are determined to drive all "fleshies" away.
Based on a true story set in pre-war Japan, a man and one of his servants begin a torrid affair. Their desire becomes a sexual obsession so strong that to intensify their ardor, they forsake all, even life itself.
A troubled psychologist is sent to investigate the crew of an isolated research station orbiting a bizarre planet.
Set in the ghettos of Paris in 2010, an undercover cop and ex-thug try to infiltrate a gang in order to defuse a neutron bomb.
Wart is a young boy who aspires to be a knight's squire. On a hunting trip he falls in on Merlin, a powerful but amnesiac wizard who has plans for him beyond mere squiredom. He starts by trying to give him an education, believing that once one has an education, one can go anywhere. Needless to say, it doesn't quite work out that way.
Our climate change plans will grow the economy, they'll create jobs and they'll lower power prices. I notice there's been a bit of a debate and a bit of a scare campaign by the News Limited papers talking about international offsets for carbon pollution reduction.
When CIA Analyst Jack Ryan interferes with an IRA assassination, a renegade faction targets Jack and his family as revenge.
Well, this is the other good news - what it's going to mean is if you can store the energy during the day - say the family watching the show this morning, the kids go off to school, mum and dad might go to work - what happens is at the moment, if you have just got solar panels, you don't get the energy when you need it which is in the evenings, when the kids turn computers on and you need the energy. The beauty of the batteries is that the energy is going to be there when you need it not just when the sun is shining.
Oh, two questions, OK.
I had a dream...sleeping with you and Hwa-yeong.  Jin-goo and Joo-hee were happy until one day their daughter Hwa-yeong, who had eloped with another man, came home. Hwa-yeong and Jin-goo were a couple at school and she had gotten pregnant. So things took place quickly and they got to live with Hwa-yeong's mother Joo-hee. However, when Hwa-yeong found out she wasn't pregnant, hit it off with another man and left the house. Jin-goo and Joo-hee had fallen in love while she was gone. Hwa-yeong had broken up with her other man and came home. However, she finds it weird that Jin-goo is still at her mother's house. Jin-goo and Joo-hee put out all sorts of lies to hide the truth from Hwa-yeong.
No, she has strong views. I like Melissa.
An American pilot is sent to a Chinese province to teach a crew of would-be pilots how to fly war planes against the Japanese during World War II.
A bigoted junkie cop suffering from bipolar disorder and drug addiction manipulates and hallucinates his way through the festive season in a bid to secure promotion and win back his wife and daughter.
A deadly airborne virus finds its way into the USA and starts killing off people at an epidemic rate. Col Sam Daniels' job is to stop the virus spreading from a small town, which must be quarantined, and to prevent an over reaction by the White House.
In the future, a strange fungus has changed nearly everyone into a thoughtless, flesh-eating monster. When a scientist and a teacher find a girl who seems to be immune to the fungus, they all begin a journey to save humanity.
We will in principle. I mean it would have to be a pretty amazing reason not to.
The rebellious Thracian Spartacus, born and raised a slave, is sold to Gladiator trainer Batiatus. After weeks of being trained to kill for the arena, Spartacus turns on his owners and leads the other slaves in rebellion. As the rebels move from town to town, their numbers swell as escaped slaves join their ranks. Under the leadership of Spartacus, they make their way to southern Italy, where they will cross the sea and return to their homes.
I'm not choosing it, the scientists say it. It's what we've got to do to stop the planet getting warmer.
NYPD detectives Christopher Danson (Johnson) and P.K. Highsmith (Jackson) are the baddest and most beloved cops in New York City. They don't get tattoos, other men get tattoos of them. Two desks over and one back, sit detectives Allen Gamble (Ferrell) and Terry Hoitz (Wahlberg). You've seen them in the background of photos of Danson and Highsmith, out of focus and eyes closed. They're not heroes, they're "the other guys." But every cop has his or her day and soon Gamble and Hoitz stumble into a seemingly innocuous case no other detective wants to touch that could turn into NYC's biggest crime. It's the opportunity of their lives, but do these guys have the right stuff?
Charlie Kenton is a washed-up fighter who retired from the ring when robots took over the sport. After his robot is trashed, he reluctantly teams up with his estranged son to rebuild and train an unlikely contender.
Cheers, see you mate.
Who gets on the front bench is ultimately decided by the Caucus. But I think all things being equal that would be the case, yes.
The adventures of a heroic and debonair stalwart mouse named Stuart Little with human qualities, who faces some comic misadventures while searching for his lost bird friend and living with a human family as their child.
First of all, they are 2 different issues.
Well there's two issues there. One is the person and the other is the office.
Well, I want to try and answer -
Blonde Betty Elms has only just arrived in Hollywood to become a movie star when she meets an enigmatic brunette with amnesia. Meanwhile, as the two set off to solve the second woman's identity, filmmaker Adam Kesher runs into ominous trouble while casting his latest project.
A passionate holiday romance leads to an obsessive relationship when an Australian photojournalist wakes one morning in a Berlin apartment and is unable to leave.
A young man goes to his father's home in Maine where, helped by a public registry, he locates and tracks down sex offenders. In parallel, his mother follows his trail in order to try to understand what could have pushed him into this murderous madness.
Retired C.I.A. agent Frank Moses reunites his unlikely team of elite operatives for a global quest to track down a missing portable nuclear device.
Well I've explained that I didn't understand the question that was being asked.
I certainly don't think the outcome of the next election is at all decided. That will be decided by 15 or 16 million voters whenever the Government finally call an election.
And the Commonwealth public service.

The setting is Detroit in 1995. The city is divided by 8 Mile, a road that splits the town in half along racial lines. A young white rapper, Jimmy "B-Rabbit" Smith Jr. summons strength within himself to cross over these arbitrary boundaries to fulfill his dream of success in hip hop. With his pal Future and the three one third in place, all he has to do is not choke.
And if you don't have an explanation for how you're going to educate the kids or look after the sick or deal with our environment or make sure that we've got economic growth which is in the interests of everyone not just the lucky few, then people are going to say, they're going to look for more extreme solutions and just say no, we're not interested in this version of change which doesn't have a place for us in it. 
Advertising executive Nick Marshall is as cocky as they come, but what happens to a chauvinistic guy when he can suddenly hear what women are thinking? Nick gets passed over for a promotion, but after an accident enables him to hear women's thoughts, he puts his newfound talent to work against Darcy, his new boss, who seems to be infatuated with him.
Yeah well, there is a way to go, things close up. But what I'm going to do is focus on the people.
Sure. But I actually think Sale Secondary College is also important.
Well I don't think this country is getting a better deal from the third Liberal Prime Minister in five years. I don't think they do have a clear plan except to respond to events.
Yeah –
There's no doubt that if we back renewable energy, renewable energy is cheaper than existing forms of power in the future.
It mightn't be enough, I get that so - 
Good morning Michael.
I think the nation is sick and tired after ten years of arguing about climate change that we just don't get on with it. Energy prices have just gone up and up and up, in Sydney, 26 per cent on average nationally, 19 per cent.
What we have said is that we are going to review the Newstart allowance. It is, in my opinion too low.
This movie was followed by a sequel (The Japanese Wife Next Door – Part 2) which features the exact same cast, but follows Takashi’s fate if he had married Mina (the other woman he shared the drink with that night) instead.
His unholy sexual passion for his sister, his marriage to Rome's most infamous prostitute, his fiendishly inventive means of disposing those who would oppose him, and more.
Well good point. We are keeping an eye on this.
In the year 10,191, the world is at war for control of the desert planet Dune – the only place where the time-travel substance 'Spice' can be found. But when one leader gives up control, it's only so he can stage a coup with some unsavory characters.
Cinderella's Hot Night presents a lively retelling of the classic fairy tale...with a slightly more mature, erotic twist. Follow the adventures of the bewildered Cindy as she falls prey to her wicked sex-crazed benefactor all the while pining for her secret love, a noble European Prince. With the help of her smoking hot Fairy Godmother, Cindy finally realizes her dream of becoming a real-life Princess.
No, I haven’t quite got around to that.
Thanks for the conversation, Leigh. It was great.
Well all the research and science and experts make it clear that the more early years learning we can give our kids before they go to school, it just absolutely, quantum improves their learning experience at schools. So Labor has made a decision that we want to offer universal preschool, 15 hours a week, 40 weeks of the year, to all three and four year olds in Australia.
Lucky Luke becomes the Sheriff of Daisy Town and runs out all the criminals. Then the Dalton brothers arrive and try to get the Indians to break the peace treaty and attack the town.
love.
After watching their respective partners die, a cop and a hitman form an alliance in order to bring down their common enemy.
No. No.
Well we set up the National Disability Insurance Scheme when I was last in government. 
Wow. 
Maybe we need to have a plebiscite  - I don't know.
I think that we can miss out on what's happening around the world, you know climate change and the investment in renewables is one example but I think your question is going to a deeper point. Is change too hard in Australia and I don't think it is.
There will be no change to existing investors.
I just didn’t realise that we had a technophobic government who is afraid of new technology.
There are a number of points in what you say. First of all, enterprise bargaining was introduced 25 years ago.
There's 250 companies caught by our safeguards mechanism, the same safeguard mechanism the current government applies to 120, each company will respond differently. You and I know that the reason why the government's trying to focus on how much it might cost to put in a new renewable energy system is that they're trying to distract from the fact they have no climate change policy.
I've spoken to him a few times. But I notice the conspiracy of the far right against Malcolm Turnbull.
Thank you Jon.
Well I tell you what the numbers on me were the same before the State Election as they are now, but we’re doing pretty well. We’re doing well because we focus on people.
The adventures of two California Highway Patrol motorcycle officers as they make their rounds on the freeways of Los Angeles.
A retired pop singer turned actress' sense of reality is shaken when she is stalked by an obsessed fan and seemingly a ghost of her past.
Well this is my sixth January as Opposition Leader and what I'm hearing all over Australia, not just Queensland, is people are sick of the instability. So when you say what am I targeting, I don't look at Queensland as LNP or Labor, I just look at them as Queenslanders.
No that was the other part of your question, I said come back to it. So I think Julie Bishop's, for a Liberal, done a good job in foreign affairs.
Baby Bink couldn't ask for more; he has adoring (if somewhat sickly-sweet) parents, he lives in a huge mansion, and he's just about to appear in the social pages of the paper. Unfortunately, not everyone in the world is as nice as Baby Bink's parents; especially the three enterprising kidnapers who pretend to be photographers from the newspaper. Successfully kidnaping Baby Bink, they have a harder time keeping hold of the rascal, who not only keeps one step ahead of them, but seems to be more than a little bit smarter than the three bumbling criminals.
We've got the policies which are in the interests of working and middle Australia. To people listening to this show now who are just fed up with politics, I get that.
Author P.L. Travers travels from London to Hollywood as Walt Disney Pictures adapts her novel Mary Poppins for the big screen.
Jack Ryan, as a young covert CIA analyst, uncovers a Russian plot to crash the U.S. economy with a terrorist attack.
Barrie, is this Liberal government, this protection racket for the banks scandals and rip-offs we’ve seen, are they really telling Australians that the only way that we can have a banking sector is to have an unethical banking sector? I don't buy that, nor do thousands of farmers and small businesses and people who have been ripped off by the banks. I for one have been shocked.
It'll be great. Long overdue.
Pakistan-born comedian Kumail Nanjiani and grad student Emily Gardner fall in love but struggle as their cultures clash. When Emily contracts a mysterious illness, Kumail finds himself forced to face her feisty parents, his family's expectations, and his true feelings.
No, I'm not going to criticise Kevin there, I think he's entitled to his opinion, he's earned it the hard way and I think also, in answering that question about Mr Rudd that's the difference between Labor and Liberal. I acknowledge what Kevin and Julia have done, they did some good things.
A New Jersey guy dedicated to his family, friends, and church, develops unrealistic expectations from watching porn and works to find happiness and intimacy with his potential true love.
I will get Brendan to supplement the answer. We are not going to pick a final number but I will state this.
Yes ours is a nine day tour, although because it overlapped with the weekend, I've had a day on the Sunshine Coast. I'm here at Moffat Beach - it's in the People's Republic of Caloundra.
No. I've written to Mr Morrison - this is all pretty fast moving as you’d appreciate -  what I have written to Mr Morrison is a letter where I congratulate him, but I've also read media reports that they are rushing to appoint a new Governor-General, although the existing Governor-General's term doesn't finish until the end of March next year.
Let's be fair here, Leigh. Let’s be fair.
Well first of all, the only way that you could follow the government’s logic is if you would stop investing in property in Australia. The reality is most people invest in property because it is a good deal.
You've declined. I am sorry if you are busy at lunchtime.
I think there are some things that we can do -
Yes. So I think the Government doesn't want to have an election, but on the other hand I think the people of  Australia are feeling quite left out of all the decisions that have been happening recently.
Well, first of all, we have said that if you currently negatively gear, you will keep negative gearing. So it has no change to any Australian watching this show today.
Because it is costing $6 billion. The reality is that when you go to hospital it costs a lot more than $2000, I need to find money for our ageing population.
No. Let's go to one.
A man struggles with memories of his past, including a wife he cannot remember, in a nightmarish world with no sun and run by beings with telekinetic powers who seek the souls of humans.
Well, I think that part of the reason why Clive Palmer is copping some criticism is that he used to run a nickel plant or business interest associated with it in Townsville. And that nickel plant went into insolvency and workers were left with unpaid wages and entitlements - the taxpayers had to step into the shoes of Palmer and pay the workers their entitlements.
Yeah no, that’s somewhere with the Burberry trench coat. 
Every other level of government has an anti-corruption commission, other states have. I think that there's a lot that we can learn from those lessons.
James Bond returns as the secret agent 007 one more time to battle the evil organization SPECTRE. Bond must defeat Largo, who has stolen two atomic warheads for nuclear blackmail. But Bond has an ally in Largo's girlfriend, the willowy Domino, who falls for Bond and seeks revenge. This is the last time for Sean Connery as Her Majesty's Secret Agent 007. Made outside of the traditional Broccoli production environment due to separate rights having been obtained for this specific Ian Fleming story.
Ben Campbell is a young, highly intelligent, student at M.I.T. in Boston who strives to succeed. Wanting a scholarship to transfer to Harvard School of Medicine with the desire to become a doctor, Ben learns that he cannot afford the $300,000 for the four to five years of schooling as he comes from a poor, working-class background. But one evening, Ben is introduced by his unorthodox math professor Micky Rosa into a small but secretive club of five. Students Jill, Choi, Kianna, and Fisher, who are being trained by Professor Rosa of the skill of card counting at blackjack.
they want to look after the top end of town by cutting services to everyone.
Well I think that is essentially Mark's judgement, that he doesn't think it is going to happen and he doesn't support it. I think a lot of people feel that way.
The Wishbone family is far from happy. With a struggling bookshop, an overworked husband, and two misunderstood teenagers, Emma is at her wit's end trying to be the perfect mom. After dragging her family to a costume party on Halloween night, they are cursed by an evil witch and transformed into a Vampire, a Mummy, a Werewolf, and Frankenstein's monster. Now Emma will fight to keep her Monster Family together and uncover the secret of their curse... eventually leading them to the Prince of Darkness himself, Dracula!
I think there is disillusionment with institutions generally. I don't think a lot of people trust the media.
When a young boy makes a wish at a carnival machine to be big—he wakes up the following morning to find that it has been granted and his body has grown older overnight. But he is still the same 13-year-old boy inside. Now he must learn how to cope with the unfamiliar world of grown-ups including getting a job and having his first romantic encounter with a woman.
Well under Scott Morrison, immigration has gone up, not down. I mean, this is politics.
Well the franking credits, that's still prospective. Without everyone being bored to tears about the issue, in 1987, Paul Keating introduced the scheme, basic principle of tax equity, he said you shouldn't pay tax twice.
No. Let's go to that.
if you want to keep driving a petrol car, you can. Excellent.
You can't sugar-coat this. This is an Australian citizen who has been detained in China, the Embassy has just been notified.
Snoopy embarks upon his greatest mission as he and his team take to the skies to pursue their arch-nemesis, while his best pal Charlie Brown begins his own epic quest.
Well first of all, I understand the frustration of Australians about crowded infrastructure, and our immigration should be what's in the national interest but part of that debate has to be fixing up our infrastructure.
He's a vegetarian. When a lie turns Oscar into an improbable hero and Lenny becomes an outcast, the two form an unlikely friendship.
Have a lovely morning guys. The swimming program is really important, it's good policy.
Hang on a second. As you would know as a seasoned journalist, there is always plenty of conversations.
Yeah I think that there is - and it's not just the regions. You know, South Australia, there are plenty of places who would like to take some migrants.
I do think that there's too much bullying goes on and by that, I don't necessarily know what has happened to her and I don't have the facts but I have seen some of the Government rush to say oh it's all made up or that's just life. Sure, in adversarial politics you're going to disagree and things get said but I don't know what has gone on last week.
Twenty-eight-year-old Georgia is convinced the man of her dreams is "the one that got away" back in high school. When Georgia learns of her high school reunion a week before Christmas, she's ecstatic to finally have her chance to win Craig back. But as she gets to relive high school for a night, she begins to realize it might not be Craig at all who got away, but Ben, an old friend with whom she'd fallen out of touch.
Well good point. I think back in 2004, the then Labor Party in Parliament felt a bit stampeded.
Batman and Nightwing are forced to team with the Joker's sometimes-girlfriend Harley Quinn to stop a global threat brought about by Poison Ivy and Jason Woodrue, the Floronic Man.
Yeah, I've got to say that I think we should have an Australian head of state but my family, my eight year old is driving me crazy to meet Meghan Markle - there's no question that the royals - that every little girl loves a princess. 
No, it was everyone. It was a collective effort.
There they go again, the government. They already sound like they're backpedalling on making the banks accountable.
CIA Analyst Jack Ryan is drawn into an illegal war fought by the US government against a Colombian drug cartel.
Oh, I'm not getting ahead of myself. What we're going to do is not focus so much on the Government and the personalities but on our plan for the future.
All-stars from the previous Step Up installments come together in glittering Las Vegas, battling for a victory that could define their dreams and their careers.
What does that mean, he's not going to assassinate someone? I mean, sorry, but if you want to change the era I think the Liberals need to do some time in opposition to understand how fundamentally people don't like this. 
Spans the period from 1958 to the present day and tells the story of an unconditional love between a mother and her daughter which is endangered by an unsteady and manipulative father.
White Castle hamburgers. Both guys are at a crossroads, about to make major decisions that will affect the course of their lives. Yet they arrive at wisdom by accident as they drive around New Jersey in search of fast food.
Listen, I think what happened is that people just want you to get on with the job. I don’t think everyone agrees with everything that Labor says, and people don’t agree with everything the Liberals say.
Yeah. I would pick a more positive number than costs.
Well first of all, it is just a nonsense claim. It is a nonsense claim and it is built upon the back of a big lie.
They still are. They still are.
They have invented iView You know it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day - 
– sure 
Well, I was in Whyalla today, talking to the people who run OneSteel and they made it clear that they're investing in more renewable energy. So there is a cost to investing in new technology but they're absolutely convinced that the only way we will keep making steel in Australia is by investing in renewable energy.
No, it's still got a long way to go. That would be too arrogant to just assume that the election is over.
We're committed to putting in place anti-bulling programs. Keeping kids safe shouldn't be the matter of the politics that it is.
The incredible true story behind the most controversial Italian court cases in recent years. Stefano Cucchi was arrested for a minor crime and mysteriously found dead during his detention. In one week's time, a family is changed forever.
Occasionally we do.
It's not even true so it's not that tough to counter. If we stop -
If we want to talk about conflicting positions, let's be even handed here, Leigh. You have got all these Scott Morrison Liberals down in Melbourne and Sydney, they call themselves "modern Liberals", and you've got the LNP in Queensland with a different view.
Cheerio, bye-bye.
All right, good chat. Thank you.
Kevin McCallister's parents have split up. Now living with his mom, he decides to spend Christmas with his dad at the mansion of his father's rich girlfriend, Natalie. Meanwhile robber Marv Merchants, one of the villains from the first two movies, partners up with a new criminal named Vera to hit Natalie's mansion.
A fair go for all. We're going to invest in people and invest in infrastructure.
18-year-old Penny Cooper spent years pining for Johnny Sanders Jr., but when a mysterious musician shows up on the beach, Penny is torn.
Coal and our gas are important industries going forward. They are important to our exports and that will be part of our energy mix, but I am going to take real action on climate change.
Set between Episode II and III the Clone Wars is the first computer animated Star Wars film. Anakin and Obi Wan must find out who kidnapped Jabba the Hutts son and return him safely. The Seperatists will try anything to stop them and ruin any chance of a diplomatic agreement between the Hutt's and the Republic.
By all means.
Can a storybook view of romance survive in the real world?
First of all, when it comes to community sector, there was some wage improvement made for them when Labor was last in power. When it comes to aged care, let's see what the Royal Commission does.
Well, first of all, we've always made clear that whatever outcome occurs should be after consultation and negotiation with business including small business.
Complete strangers stranded at a remote desert motel during a raging storm soon find themselves the target of a deranged murderer. As their numbers thin out, the travelers begin to turn on each other, as each tries to figure out who the killer is.
I think the state election had a range of state issues, there is always a lesson there and we're not complacent. What we are doing nationally is we're not relying on the fact we're the Government.
No. What we will do though is we're going to pick up what Malcolm Turnbull proposed.
I haven't seen those remarks. But I think what you said in the preamble is correct.
We can afford to do this because we are making the tough economic decisions. We want multinationals to pay more tax.
A deaf woman is stalked by a psychotic killer in her secluded home.
We believe that anyone who comes here via people smuggler should be resettled in a third party nation, yes.
Well first of all, we don't accept that. This is the Government who's raised more taxes than anyone before us.
That's a really good point. First of all, the government loves to say that if we are not going to give a tax subsidy to a property investor, somehow that’s a property tax.
What our changes will mean is that it will be fairer, in terms of…
We need an independent national broadcaster.  
When a car bomb explodes on the American side of the U.S./Mexico border, Mexican drug enforcement agent Miguel Vargas begins his investigation, along with American police captain Hank Quinlan. When Vargas begins to suspect that Quinlan and his shady partner, Menzies, are planting evidence to frame an innocent man, his investigations into their possible corruption quickly put himself and his new bride, Susie, in jeopardy.
John Carter is a war-weary, former military captain who's inexplicably transported to the mysterious and exotic planet of Barsoom (Mars) and reluctantly becomes embroiled in an epic conflict. It's a world on the brink of collapse, and Carter rediscovers his humanity when he realizes the survival of Barsoom and its people rests in his hands.
Four Navy SEALs on a covert mission to neutralize a high-level al-Qaeda operative must make an impossible moral decision in the mountains of Afghanistan that leads them into an enemy ambush. As they confront unthinkable odds, the SEALs must find reserves of strength and resilience to fight to the finish.
No, not at all. Did you know Karl that since they have got into power they have doubled the national debt? And what we have also seen is that they've had deficit upon deficit.
Well, that's all happened under the current government and that's at the heart of this election. This government loves to talk about a strong economy but strong for who? Corporate profits are up 39 per cent but wages are only up 5 per cent.
I think that putting in a black and white legislation just puts it beyond doubt. I mean it's not me, it's the Government has had three different Prime Ministers in the time I've been Opposition Leader.
I think it would, be if they rush this, this will be an act of desperation, and what they want to do is try and assert decisions for which they don't have any responsibility after the next election if they are unsuccessful. 
Liquidated after discovering a corporate conspiracy, mild-mannered graphic artist Patience Phillips washes up on an island, where she's resurrected and endowed with the prowess of a cat -- and she's eager to use her new skills ... as a vigilante. Before you can say "cat and mouse," handsome gumshoe Tom Lone is on her tail.
Well first of all, you know that when the polls are good or bad, over five years, one month and 13 days, I haven't commented. I'm not going to start doing that now.
As America's stock of athletic young men is depleted during World War II, a professional all-female baseball league springs up in the Midwest, funded by publicity-hungry candy maker Walter Harvey (Garry Marshall). Competitive sisters Dottie Hinson (Geena Davis) and Kit Keller (Lori Petty) spar with each other, scout Ernie Capadino (Jon Lovitz) and grumpy has-been coach Jimmy Dugan (Tom Hanks) on their way to fame. Madonna and Rosie O'Donnell co-star as two of the sisters' teammates.
Well, first of all, the reason why we're doing it is there is no principle that says it is fair that a non-taxpayer gets a tax refund, a cash tax refund. But it is also not fair that we're spending $100 million a week paying non-taxpayers cash tax refunds.
Sorry about that Lisa.
lower the prices, take real action on climate change and ensure reliability. Batteries for households is the missing link.
Benjamin, a young German computer whiz, is invited to join a subversive hacker group that wants to be noticed on the world's stage.
Fiscal responsibility is important, I don't accept the Liberal argument that somehow Dan Andrews isn't fiscally responsible, they've made some very strong decisions. But we've been making hard economic reforms, my economic team of Chris Bowen and Jim Chalmers and the others, we've been making serious economic reform proposals to explain how we pay for our changes.
give in to the terrorists and sacrifice his family, or risk everything to uphold his principles - and the integrity of the nation.
Three high school students make an incredible discovery, leading to their developing uncanny powers beyond their understanding. As they learn to control their abilities and use them to their advantage, their lives start to spin out of control, and their darker sides begin to take over.
Well we are putting forward a series of recommendations. Changing the law on whistleblowers, changing the ability of companies to mask or hide what they are doing.
The evil Dr. Kochin uses the dragon balls to resurrect his mentor, Dr. Wheelo, in an effort to take over the world. Dr. Wheelo, his body having been destroyed by the avalanche that killed him fifty years before, desires the body of the strongest fighter in the world as his new vessel. Believing Roshi to be the world's strongest warrior, Dr. Kochin abducts Bulma and forces Roshi to surrender himself to save her. When Goku hears of their abduction, he goes to their rescue.
No. I just want to reassure Australians that despite the chaos and division that we saw last week in the Government and their inability to explain why they got rid of Malcolm Turnbull, I want to reassure Australians that what we're working on is positive reasons to vote for Labor.
We’re here to explain Labor’s great policies for this election. In particular, on this visit we’re talking about our exciting new ideas to improve health funding.
I like the principle, that's my answer. I think the principle of it.
Do we spend too much or we won't spend enough? The reality is for me, it's not - I don't view education and health -
No, he supports party policy and that is our party policy, a two-state solution - the right of Israel to exist behind secure borders but also recognising the legitimate aspirations of Palestinian people to their own country. 
What we want to do, and we think, without question, the preferred position will be to refer it off to the High Court - let's get resolution. I think that the Australian people hate the fact that the politicians can't guarantee if they're eligible to do their day job.
No. I have got to say that what concerns me is the waiting list that someone - the waiting time that someone has to get an elective surgery.
We'll have more to say about energy policy in the next couple of months but I think you're right. The Government did some work on the National Energy Guarantee and we are prepared to use that as part of our framework going forward.
Just hang on, hang on, gentlemen, ladies, we've a fair go at this press conference, perhaps I'll allow one more question and then we got to finish up, we've got to go to Tiwi.
It was a big time. I remember, of course, that two men got killed and another two were badly burnt.
Well I like Melissa. I think she is an accomplished woman and she was a good Member of Parliament when she was there and she's also worked overseas for the United Nations and refugees so, I like her.
Graced with a velvet voice, 21-year-old Violet Sanford heads to New York to pursue her dream of becoming a songwriter only to find her aspirations sidelined by the accolades and notoriety she receives at her "day" job as a barmaid at Coyote Ugly. The "Coyotes" as they are affectionately called tantalize customers and the media alike with their outrageous antics, making Coyote Ugly the watering hole for guys on the prowl.
Six short stories that explore the extremities of human behavior involving people in distress.
A fast-talking lawyer transforms his body and takes a vow of silence, not to be broken until he finds out who killed his wife and daughter and has his revenge.
These guys have got to stop focusing on themselves and do their day job. Now I'm sure that will lead to angry comments from the right wing of the Liberal Party but, if they think that what they've done in the last week has made Australia a better place they're sadly mistaken.
Ok, but I'm happy to contribute, though.
First of all, there are concerns that trade agreements provide some disadvantages as well as some advantages. I'm sympathetic to that complaint.
I don't see how that's possible. We'll have to see what the Government is thinking and they need to consult on the terms of reference.
But it's interesting, when you get off a plane at Tullamarine or at Mascot when you come from overseas, whilst you've enjoyed your visit overseas you know there's things about this country we're proud of, but we don't - when we get back to Australia - when we're overseas do we talk about our Medicare system or our tax deductions?
Grace, a compassionate young supervisor at a foster care facility, works with her boyfriend and colleague, Mason, to help at-risk teens. But when a new charge dredges up memories of her own troubled past, Grace's tough exterior begins eroding.
Good, that's good. There you go.
Yeah, I can, and I'm also fortunate to have people of the calibre of Senator Dodson here and I might give him a run on the ball, but I'll just make this. The current CDP's not working.
No, that's right. Someone's got to have the courage to stand up for the next generation, that's what we will do.
The hyperactive red-headed bird enters a turf war with a big city lawyer wanting to tear down his home in an effort to build a house to flip.
If you want to talk about bullying, how about that LNP trying to threaten Melissa Price's job?
That's Kevin's opinion. What I'm going to do is -
Listen, I think some of our time zone differences are absolutely crazy, but I also know that every state has got very long held views on this issue. So let's start with immigration and cost of living and wages, then when we have done all of that, let's get on to daylight savings.
Follows a young man named Albert and his horse, Joey, and how their bond is broken when Joey is sold to the cavalry and sent to the trenches of World War One. Despite being too young to enlist, Albert heads to France to save his friend.
No, I'm just saying that he can make decisions which affect them now, but appointing -  this is the Head of State of Australia. 
Well we want the subsidy to go to the parents and what we're going to say to child care operators though is that we don't want them ramping up the prices. I think this is important point to make.
Well we’ll release our figures before the election is concluded, but we’ve also made clear that we think we need to wind back what we give to negative gearing.
Yes, I thought the vote would be successful but what I realised on the morning of the vote being declared was the amount of pressure that a lot of people - LGBTQ people felt because what it was is this silly process which got the right outcome. It put a lot of pressure on our fellow Australians.
Well, changing the Constitution is very difficult. And in fact, this period of Australian history, unlike tenure of Prime Ministers, has been the longest period in which our Constitution hasn't been updated.
A group of surviving people take refuge in a shopping centre after the world has been over taken over by aggressive, flesh-eating zombies.
We need to see the final detail. Anyone who says that they can commit to something that they haven't seen is selling you something which isn't real.
That's good.
The dynamic duo of Chon Wang and Roy O'Bannon return for another crazy adventure. This time, they're in London to avenge the murder of Chon's father, but end up on an even bigger case. Chon's sister is there to do the same, but instead unearths a plot to kill the royal family. No one believes her, though, and it's up to Chon and Roy (who has romance on his mind) to prove her right.
Fletcher Reede is a fast-talking attorney and habitual liar. When his son Max blows out the candles on his fifth birthday he has just one wish - that his dad will stop lying for 24 hours. When Max's wish comes true, Fletcher discovers that his mouth has suddenly become his biggest liability.
No, I’ll tell you what my Labor colleagues they are adults, they can sign or not. Doesn't change our policy and our policy is as simple as this, we get that fossil fuel and coal is important to export and power generation but I promise Australian who are fed up with the dysfunction and disunity of the Government on climate change we need to act.
It doesn't matter if it's a union who comes to me or a business, an environmental activist. What I'll do if Prime Minister, is I'll work with all of those interests, but I'm not going to be the servant of any of those interests.
In the combustible action franchise's final installment, maverick detectives Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh square off against Asian mobster Wah Sing Ku, who's up to his neck in slave trading and counterfeit currency. With help from gumshoe Leo Getz and smart-aleck rookie cop Lee Butters, Riggs and Murtaugh aim to take down Ku and his gang.
After his wife dies, a blacksmith named Balian is thrust into royalty, political intrigue and bloody holy wars during the Crusades.
We think that there's something that we can work with there, yes. I mean part of the problem though, Barrie, and I think that we need to have this discussion, is that the market is dysfunctional in terms of energy prices.
We're not going back to the policies of the past. We're not going to have a carbon tax.
No. And the point about it is that she is a strong person.
Good morning.
Yes, for the vast bulk of people we are offering the same thing. You are quite right, for the three per cent of tax earners we still think we need a budget repair levy until 22-23.
When teen Sarah is forced to babysit Toby, her baby stepbrother, she summons Jareth the Goblin King to take him away. When he is actually kidnapped, Sarah is given just thirteen hours to solve a labyrinth and rescue him.
Hard-to-crack ex-CIA man, Jack Byrnes and his wife, Dina head for the warmer climes of Florida to meet son-in-law-to-be, Greg Focker's parents. Unlike their happily matched offspring, the future in-laws find themselves in a situation of opposites that definitely do not attract.
Frank Drebin is persuaded out of retirement to go undercover in a state prison. There he is to find out what top terrorist, Rocco, has planned for when he escapes. Frank's wife, Jane, is desperate for a baby.. this adds to Frank's problems. A host of celebrities at the Academy awards ceremony are humiliated by Frank as he blunders his way trying to foil Rocco.
The place would erupt if if they rolled him. 
Well I think this is a Government to be honest, who have stopped governing. They view everything through the prism of beating Labor and winning the election.
An uptight by-the-book cop must protect the widow of a drug boss from crooked cops and gunmen.
When Earth astronaut Capt. Chuck Baker arrives on Planet 51 -- a world reminiscent of American suburbia circa 1950 -- he tries to avoid capture, recover his spaceship and make it home safely, all with the help of an empathetic little green being.
We want to make sure that our defence spending is up to 2 per cent of our national economy. We are committed to making sure that we properly fund our national security agencies and the Federal Police.
Well you would love to know what business Tim is in, he obviously is having some business difficulties already, but let me just say this on climate change. First of all, taking action on climate change is good for the economy.
We're going to change the laws and we're going to put the resources to enforce the laws. If you want to crack down on multinationals and very, very wealthy people not paying their tax, who do you trust? The Liberal Party who spent most of their time in government wanting to give them tax cuts, or the Labor Party who wants to properly fund our schools and hospitals? When it comes to this, there's only one party you can trust to clean it up and that's the Labor Party.
Sure.
Well I don't know the answer to that, but I'm not sure that Mr Morrison does. With Mr Turnbull announcing that he'll step down, he won't be back in Parliament, which means that the Government only has 75 MPs out of 150 and one of those is the Speaker, so that means they have 74.
We get into the adjectives game, what I can say is it is too low.
Set on an island off the coast of New England in the summer of 1965, Moonrise Kingdom tells the story of two twelve-year-olds who fall in love, make a secret pact, and run away together into the wilderness. As various authorities try to hunt them down, a violent storm is brewing off-shore – and the peaceful island community is turned upside down in more ways than anyone can handle.
Yeah, I don't know where the Government thinks they get the money they spend from. They don't just magic it up through their sheer genius.
Lara Croft ventures to an underwater temple in search of the mythological Pandora's Box but, after securing it, it is promptly stolen by the villainous leader of a Chinese crime syndicate. Lara must recover the box before the syndicate's evil mastermind uses it to construct a weapon of catastrophic capabilities.
Well, if you think we're catching, if you think that we are hearing all of the insider deals that go on well I don’t share that view. Labor is going to pursue and make sure we restore faith in institutions, not just in the government.
Leigh, you know there's no plans for 60 per cent or indeed 50 per cent, but I agree that what we need to do is eventually lighten the burden of income tax across all the levels. But to be fair, we already are offering 3.
cement, steel, aluminium and other sectors. We have created a $300 million dollar fund to help them invest in new technology.
It was just madness. My view is that people's relationships are their own business.
Yes. There's already 50,000 batteries installed around Australia.
I have only read what you read. Mr Assange is entitled to his day in court.
Leigh, let's see how we go in the election first. We haven't won and we haven't lost.
A newly married couple who, in the process of starting a family, learn many of life's important lessons from their trouble-loving retriever, Marley. Packed with plenty of laughs to lighten the load, the film explores the highs and lows of marriage, maturity and confronting one's own mortality, as seen through the lens of family life with a dog.
Well, we have a look around the world and the Americans have been able to make some big breakthroughs in some financial scandals by basically encouraging some of the people involved to be able to come forward and get a reward. What our plan means for people who are doing the wrong thing is that just be aware of the person next to you because they might just want the reward and not put up with corruption.
Jigsaw and his apprentice Amanda are dead. Now, upon the news of Detective Kerry's murder, two seasoned FBI profilers, Agent Strahm and Agent Perez, arrive in the terrified community to assist the veteran Detective Hoffman in sifting through Jigsaw's latest grisly remains and piecing together the puzzle. However, when SWAT Commander Rigg is abducted and thrust into a game, the last officer untouched by Jigsaw has but ninety minutes to overcome a series of demented traps and save an old friend...or face the deadly consequences.
It's so dishonest this debate. It is so dishonest - 
Super. Thank you.
Corporate downsizing expert Ryan Bingham spends his life in planes, airports, and hotels, but just as he’s about to reach a milestone of ten million frequent flyer miles, he meets a woman who causes him to rethink his transient life.
You know, it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day and replay it. I often see that.
That's right.
Well we are going to review it. First things first - I do think Newstart is too low.
Maybe not the lollies. See you, bye.
The story of British officer T.E. Lawrence's mission to aid the Arab tribes in their revolt against the Ottoman Empire during the First World War. Lawrence becomes a flamboyant, messianic figure in the cause of Arab unity but his psychological instability threatens to undermine his achievements.
An IRS agent with a fateful secret embarks on an extraordinary journey of redemption by forever changing the lives of seven strangers.
Let's go through each of those points rather than rapid fire, let's have a conversation. First of all, we have outlined our policies for the last three years.
Look forward to talking.
No, not at all. What’s happening now is that this government is raising record taxes and they spend it on property investors on their sixth house with negative gearing.
Well, I don't accept your assumption it's less enticing. It's preferentially taxed on the way in.
I think, Fran, is this the way we want immigration laws and strong borders being made by people whose constitutional eligibility has a cloud over it? 
Yes, Labor believes that we need to fund more preschool. We need to give all 3 year olds and 4 year olds in Australia the best jump start to going into school.
Dusty is a cropdusting plane who dreams of competing in a famous aerial race. The problem? He is hopelessly afraid of heights. With the support of his mentor Skipper and a host of new friends, Dusty sets off to make his dreams come true.
It won't have a negative effect on economic growth. In fact, most of the mainstream modelling shows that our economy will continue to grow.
It was a relief. That was the point.
We talk about a strong minimum wage, we don't talk about the top two percent of Australians not having to pay tax. It's interesting what we're proud of.
Okay sure.
We've already said that we would put money back into the Catholic and non-government system but Labor believes in education. So we will put money back into the government schools too.
Víctor is a child who is found casually roaming by a country road. His mother, Patricia, a well-known lawyer specialist in media trails, realizes about it and she goes to the hospital, where explains to the police that Víctor is deaf, and he's unable to talk, speaking using sign language. In the police headquarter Víctor explains that he was kidnapped by a strange man when we was entering to the school. The police identifies a possible suspect named Charlie, a man with money troubles and an 8-months pregnant wife who can't explain where he was when Víctor was kidnapped from the school. Seeing the inability of the police to arrest Charlie after some failed attempts to meet Víctor, Patricia contacts Raúl, Patricia's former love interest and Víctor's father, to ask him that he or a friends of him threat seriously Charlie. But when is discovered that Víctor made a false identification, Patricia tries to stop Raúl, starting a chain of events which consequences will be out of control...
Great to be on the show.
I think you just said earlier on that it was just, in very recent moments, that Tanya made that comment so, I haven't seen them. But it's a matter of record that Mr Mundine was unsuccessful in convincing the Labor Party, over many years.
Well, I think that there's been a lot of developments, hasn't there? This is not just Labor saying there's a cloud over the eligibility of a senior minister - it's now Malcolm Turnbull, it's now Julie Bishop. The Solicitor-General's advice that the Government relies upon, says that it thinks that it is the better position that Mr Dutton's Constitutionally eligible, but it doesn't give a 100 per cent guarantee and having learnt the hard way myself, you're better removing all ambiguity and submitting it to the High Court.
The Coast Guard makes a daring rescue attempt off the coast of Cape Cod after a pair of oil tankers are destroyed during a blizzard in 1952.
Well that's good he went there, I'm not going to complain about that, that's good he went there. Chloe and I went up to Western Queensland to have a look, I mean the drought has been there for years, it sort of finally got onto the national agenda.
Frederick Abberline is an opium-huffing inspector from Scotland Yard who falls for one of Jack the Ripper's prostitute targets in this Hughes brothers adaption of a graphic novel that posits the Ripper's true identity.
the fabled Bracelet of Anubis. Unfortunately, a newly resurrected Imhotep has designs on the bracelet as well, and isn’t above kidnapping its new bearer, Alex, to gain control of Anubis’s otherworldly army.
I think that is one of the questions of the ages. The member for Manila, but Jason's been our representative in northern Australia so I might get him to talk further.
We want to put forward positive views. Some people say the Government's such a disorganised shambles, just sit back and buy a box of popcorn, but the point is that puts more pressure on us, because people think the system is broken.
We've said that we don't want to see any Commonwealth tax-payer money directly or indirectly go into it, we've seen the missed deadlines, we're sceptics. We've said no taxpayer money should be used in this proposition.
Yes, she and Penny and myself, we think that the time has come to revisit that. What's happened is that over time we've started to provide protection against sex discrimination.
Well, first of all, the Government a few weeks ago said that they wanted to look at how we can break through the encrypted telecommunications of people who are criminals, terrorists and the like. We said that's fair enough.
Because for the last three years, and indeed six years, we have been united. We are putting all our policies out there.
Oh, we don't know that yet. We're working very hard on it.
I’ll come to cheaper in a second, first of all let’s deal with fair, this is the real reason we’re doing it. How is it fair, Barrie, that a couple have to compete to buy their first home with someone who is getting a taxpayer funded handout to buy their sixth or seventh home.
Set in Las Vegas, the film centers on a man who attends his best friend's bachelor party, unaware of an insidious agenda that plays into hunting humans.
A couple with a newborn baby face unexpected difficulties after they are forced to live next to a fraternity house.
Well, we've been doing a lot of hard work in the last five years as a united and stable opposition. We're not willing to face the next election and just rely on the Government's mistakes to get us across the line, our democratic system is too important.
Thank you.
The war against the Bugs continues! A Federation Starship crash-lands on the distant Alien planet OM-1, stranding beloved leader Sky Marshal Anoke and several others, including comely but tough pilot Lola Beck. It's up to Colonel/General Johnny Rico, reluctant hero of the original Bug Invasion on Planet P, to lead a team of Troopers on a daring rescue mission.
As you'd be aware, Labor's been working hard from Opposition to identify how we can improve the bottom line of the Budget. That's why we are going to reform unsustainable tax concessions which principally flow to the very well-off and we want to reuse some of that money not just to pay down debt, not just to give tax refunds to people under $100,000, but we want to invest in passing on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received from our parents.
I think Wentworth is a hard seat for Labor to win. It's a margin of nearly 18 per cent.
Well, I don’t accept that. First of all, the idea that the environment and the economy are two separate planets and separate solar systems is rubbish.
listen, you're the reason why the vote is going to go down. Which wasn't necessarily diplomatic -
I'd welcome an overdue look at the aged care sector in Australia.
Secure within a desolate home as an unnatural threat terrorizes the world, a man has established a tenuous domestic order with his wife and son, but this will soon be put to test when a desperate young family arrives seeking refuge.
And it didn't exist before we got there but I spent a lot of time talking to people with disability and their careers and then we built up a coalition of people who really wanted to see a better deal.
Well what we want to do is create a level playing field, first of all. Why should a pair of first-home buyers, you know supported by their parents, they could be in their late 20s, early 30s.
there is still a man inside the machine.
Jerry, a small-town Minnesota car salesman is bursting at the seams with debt... but he's got a plan. He's going to hire two thugs to kidnap his wife in a scheme to collect a hefty ransom from his wealthy father-in-law. It's going to be a snap and nobody's going to get hurt... until people start dying. Enter Police Chief Marge, a coffee-drinking, parka-wearing - and extremely pregnant - investigator who'll stop at nothing to get her man. And if you think her small-time investigative skills will give the crooks a run for their ransom... you betcha!
During their travel from Chicago to New York, Harry and Sally debate whether or not sex ruins a friendship between a man and a woman. Eleven years later, and they're still no closer to finding the answer.
Sorry, I didn't pluck that out of nowhere. That was the Paris Agreement.
When the girl that detective Joe Hallenback is protecting gets murdered, the boyfriend of the murdered girl attempts to investigate and solve the case. What they discover is that there is deep seated corruption going on between a crooked politician and the owner of a pro football team.
Well first of all, I haven't commented on the polls for the last five years. I think that - and today, it is even more important than ever that we talk about policy.
Anyway, so we get the hypocrisy of the process but today's a good day. It's a year on.
A young man struggles to access sublimated childhood memories. He finds a technique that allows him to travel back into the past, to occupy his childhood body and change history. However, he soon finds that every change he makes has unexpected consequences.
No listen, I've been very lucky with my team in the last five years. I'm on my third Liberal Prime Minister and I think that if you want to look at disunity you've got to look at the Government don't you.
Well whilst I'm not running for Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, especially as Michael Gunner is doing such a good job, gee the new Gunner Government was left with a lot of problems by the outgoing administration, the CLP-run people. You know, the CLP managed to do the double - the daily double.
Yeah, okay.
Whether we’re young or forever young at heart, the Hundred Acre Wood calls to that place in each of us that still believes in magic. Join pals Pooh, Piglet, Kanga, Roo, Owl, Rabbit, Tigger and Christopher Robin as they enjoy their days together and sing their way through adventures.
See you.
Yes, but it is a development. Also there's a Nationals Member of Parliament, perhaps a quiet achiever is what you would call him, Mr Hogan up in Page, and he's said he's going to sit on the crossbench as well.
Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson find themselves in 1890s London in this holiday special.
We'll change that when we get into government because I don't agree with that.
Arthur is a spirited ten-year old whose parents are away looking for work, whose eccentric grandfather has been missing for several years, and who lives with his grandmother in a country house that, in two days, will be repossessed, torn down, and turned into a block of flats unless Arthur's grandfather returns to sign some papers and pay off the family debt. Arthur discovers that the key to success lies in his own descent into the land of the Minimoys, creatures no larger than a tooth, whom his grandfather helped relocate to their garden. Somewhere among them is hidden a pile of rubies, too. Can Arthur be of stout heart and save the day? Romance beckons as well, and a villain lurks.
The story of Michael Oher, a homeless and traumatized boy who became an All American football player and first round NFL draft pick with the help of a caring woman and her family
"Dirty" Harry Callahan is a San Francisco Police Inspector on the trail of a group of rogue cops who have taken justice into their own hands. When shady characters are murdered one after another in grisly fashion, only Dirty Harry can stop them.
In a futuristic world where the polar ice caps have melted and made Earth a liquid planet, a beautiful barmaid rescues a mutant seafarer from a floating island prison. They escape, along with her young charge, Enola, and sail off aboard his ship. But the trio soon becomes the target of a menacing pirate who covets the map to 'Dryland' – which is tattooed on Enola's back.
An uproarious version of history that proves nothing is sacred – not even the Roman Empire, the French Revolution and the Spanish Inquisition.
Who, Rupert Murdoch or Kevin Rudd?
Well I think you've got to work on that. We've got to make the kids safe.
I choose to invest in schools and hospitals, reducing the aged care waiting list, making sure people can get apprenticeships, making sure that we can reduce the out-of-pocket costs in Medicare. It's all about choices and you know, we're up for the legitimate debate.
Using a special camera that can see spirits, a family must protect their daughter from an evil entity with a sinister plan.
Tom and Hannah have been platonic friends for 10 years. He's a serial dater, while she wants marriage but hasn't found Mr. Right. Just as Tom is starting to think that he is relationship material after all, Hannah gets engaged. When she asks Tom to be her 'maid' of honor, he reluctantly agrees just so he can attempt to stop the wedding and woo her.
Well there's no doubt that there's lessons federally and you've mentioned a whole range of seats where there was a significant swing to Labor. There was a strong swing to Labor even in my own seat.
Police chief Brody must protect the citizens of Amity after a second monstrous shark begins terrorizing the waters.
The subsidy will be for parents. If your household income is up to $68,000 we will provide a 100 per cent subsidy up to the capped amount of $11.
At the moment they can be north of $10,000, so they're certainly not cheap. Over the life of the battery installation people get the value back.
Of course.
There's a couple of big hypotheticals there aren't there, Lisa. But I'll go to the Adani matter, and then I'll go to jobs in Queensland.
extortion. To achieve his goal, he recruits musclemen Paul and Adrian as accomplices. After several failed attempts, they abduct rich businessman Victor Kershaw and convince him to sign over all his assets to them. But when Kershaw makes it out alive, authorities are reluctant to believe his story.
I have no plans to review the approvals. But if we want to be fair dinkum, let's be fair dinkum and let's tell the voters the truth here, all of us.
While hiding from bullies in his school's attic, a young boy discovers the extraordinary land of Fantasia, through a magical book called The Neverending Story. The book tells the tale of Atreyu, a young warrior who, with the help of a luck dragon named Falkor, must save Fantasia from the destruction of The Nothing.
In a mysterious and remote snowy outpost, Matt and Potter share a Christmas meal, swapping creepy tales of their earlier lives in the outside world, but are both men who they appear to be?
The true story of Marine Corporal Megan Leavey, who forms a powerful bond with an aggressive combat dog, Rex. While deployed in Iraq, the two complete more than 100 missions and save countless lives, until an IED explosion puts their faithfulness to the test.
A young violinist unravels her long lost father's past, triggering dark forces that reach beyond her imagination.
Adam Sandler invites you to share some holiday cheer in the new, no-holds-barred musical comedy Adam Sandler's 8 Crazy Nights. Davey Stone, a 33-year old party animal, finds himself in trouble with the law after his wild ways go too far.
I tell you what, the last Prime Minister or the last leader who worried about the polls, is probably watching this on iView from New York. I don't think it's done me a lot of harm not talking about the polls.
If he kills the king, Draco will die as well.
Yes 
Following a wild night out with his Best Man, Rob Anderson wakes up to find himself naked in an elevator on the morning of his wedding day and is forced to relive the morning over and over again.
They are not correct. There you go, short answer too.
Yeah lovely to talk. And it's going to be great to see some people even though it's marking a tragic event.
I think we are, but I think some of the shenanigans at the top level and the personality conflicts has left people disillusioned, but the way we will get around that is that we'll just go back to a more independent process to pick the senior leadership of the ABC. 
Well we are winding back the negative gearing tax concessions on future houses and we are also making other changes to the system of taxation, which will see that some tax concessions which are given to the top end won't be so generous in the future, and instead we're going to use that money to educate the next generation of Australians.
Yes. I mean, the Prime Minister, you said something that he said which deserves answering and this is the first occasion I've had to answer it since his remarkable press conference.
Seven strangers are taken out of their daily lives and placed mysteriously in a deadly cube where they all agree they must find their way out.
Lovely thank you very much for your interest.
If you don’t start – you are quite right, and what sort of world are we passing on to the next generation? We know this government is paralysed on climate change, and if they weren’t, Malcolm Turnbull would still be the Prime Minister, wouldn’t he?
About a million Australian families will benefit from our initiative on child care. Everywhere I’ve travelled in Australia as Opposition Leader, one of the single biggest problems that people tell me is that everything is going up except their wages and child care is in one of the biggest things which is going up in price.
We do think that Western Australia has had a bad deal in the past, but we've got to make sure that if we legislate to give a better deal to Western Australia, which is what Labor has called for, that we just make sure that no other state is worse off. I think it's very important that Mr Morrison doesn't rush this, what we've got to do is make sure Western Australia gets a proper deal but no other state should be worse off.
It's about time we had the renewables revolution. We're proposing to make it easier for households to buy solar powered batteries.
Well, between five to six years, we've seen the recoup in the solar panels. They'll get cheaper, and also what we'll see is people - do you know,  in the next two or three weeks, Karl, we're going to pass the 2 million household mark who have got solar on the roofs? So, I've got no doubt this is the future and we're going to start steering the nation to the future and work with Aussie families.
Let's just see, and I think it's not just Julie Bishop, to be fair to Ms Bishop. She shouldn't have to carry the can for the whole of the Liberal Party as she's had to.
What's going on in the property market at the moment is the banks are restricting credit. It's unrelated to our policy.
First of all, the election hasn't been held.
So, we're committed to our reforms to make our budget sustainable.
Well, let's sort out population, cost of living, workers’ rights, build a strong economy to make it work in the interest of everyone - 
Only one leader in this country has done a deal with Clive Palmer.
Well, that will be up to the people of Australia, but I think our message is one which resonates. It is the same message that Dan Andrews offered in Victoria - better hospitals, better schools.
Well, there's no doubt that it's going to take a while, but we've got to start. I think renewable energy and climate change is something where the Australian people are so far ahead of the politicians it's not funny.
Found inside a shining stalk of bamboo by an old bamboo cutter and his wife, a tiny girl grows rapidly into an exquisite young lady. The mysterious young princess enthralls all who encounter her - but ultimately she must confront her fate, the punishment for her crime.
Well first of all, just on this issue of grandfathering, you are quite right, when it comes to negative gearing all of the people currently negatively geared will not be affected and you’ll still be able to negatively gear your houses…
The fact that bank said this tells me a couple of things.  It tells me the biggest drop in housing prices has happened under the Coalition Government.
A young couple living in a Connecticut suburb during the mid-1950s struggle to come to terms with their personal problems while trying to raise their two children. Based on a novel by Richard Yates.
Yes, we've got to have more diversity in our media, got to hear more voices, can't just be the same old couple of large media companies in Australia. We've got to have more diversity.
In terms of national security?
This all-female horror anthology features four dark tales from four fiercely talented women.
Lovely, cheerio.
Well, it is certainly easier said than done, but we have got to do it. I don't think most Australians waking up this morning realise that some corporations and some high net wealthy - very wealthy, wealthy individuals are dodging about $5 billion in tax over the next ten years by basically going to tax havens.
I think there's a lot more water to go under the bridge but the real issue here in terms of Australians and why it matters to the everyday voter, is that you have the Minister for Home Affairs, a very important person, making very important decisions, there shouldn't be any Constitutional cloud over his eligibility to make those decisions, and I think that the Government needs to just clear the issue up.
Well, it has caused havoc and some can argue the rule is outmoded but it wouldn't be my immediate priority. I think politicians just need to get their house in order and get their eligibility sorted out.
Yes it is disappointing Lisa. It's not the way the arrangements are meant to work.
When this government, when the current Prime Minister was the loyal Treasurer, of the previous Prime Minister - if you believe that I've got a bridge to sell you - but anyway, when the Prime Minister was the Treasurer, when the current Treasurer was the former Environment Minister and when Malcolm Turnbull was still on top, they said the National Energy Guarantee would deliver $550 in lower household prices on energy. The numbers we're using, are the numbers the experts are given, they're the publicly available numbers, and they're in some cases, Malcolm Turnbull's own numbers.
Oh back in the 80s mate, but neither government has managed to produce a surplus - the Coalition hasn't managed to produce a surplus since they've been in power this time around.
My preference is questions from the audience, just direct. The media, of course, should be invited, they can film the interplay.
Of course we want people to get off the dole and get a job. But you know, this sort of simple view that you either starve people in order to make them get off the dole, it's just not as straightforward as that.
Undercover Las Vegas police officer Vincent Downs is caught in a high stakes web of corrupt cops and the mob-controlled casino underground. When a heist goes wrong, a crew of homicidal gangsters kidnaps Downs’ teenage son. In one sleepless night he will have to rescue his son, evade an internal affairs investigation and bring the kidnappers to justice.
Well, far be it from me to judge the Turnbull legacy but I think that this is another opportunity that he missed. I do think that we need a national anti-corruption commission, so I give a tick to my colleagues in the Labor Party for pushing that.
Nada, a wanderer without meaning in his life, discovers a pair of sunglasses capable of showing the world the way it truly is. As he walks the streets of Los Angeles, Nada notices that both the media and the government are comprised of subliminal messages meant to keep the population subdued, and that most of the social elite are skull-faced aliens bent on world domination. With this shocking discovery, Nada fights to free humanity from the mind-controlling aliens.
A newly possessed cheerleader turns into a killer who specializes in offing her male classmates. Can her best friend put an end to the horror?
Yes, we will, we will support boat turn backs where it's safe to do so, which is existing policy.  
Yeah you're right, we did want to see it but the problem is Mr Turnbull couldn't even bring it to the Parliament and we encouraged him to, we thought this was a good thing to do but this is the big problem in Australia and I didn't want to talk too much about my opponents. But the Liberal Party in Australia has lost the ability to say anything other than no.
Babe is a little pig who doesn't quite know his place in the world. With a bunch of odd friends, like Ferdinand the duck who thinks he is a rooster and Fly the dog he calls mom, Babe realizes that he has the makings to become the greatest sheep pig of all time, and Farmer Hogget knows it. With the help of the sheep dogs Babe learns that a pig can be anything that he wants to be.
Listen, our immigration is one issue but let's talk about the failure of politics. The reason why I went back in detail to the history of an outer ring railway in Melbourne is we've been debating this for 130 years - that's the failure of politics.
That's our aim and the point about it, but just to come to that, we do need to see what numbers the Government have got. I know people get sick of politics but this Government is going to bring down a Budget on April 2 and then rush off to an election.
Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt return as heads of the Baker family who, while on vacation, find themselves in competition with a rival family of eight children, headed by Eugene Levy,
Well it’s a matter of priorities. This is the truth in Australia at the moment.
The parents of a soon-to-be married couple make the final preparations for the wedding ceremony.
Well if I can put it really directly, do people want a government or do they want a piece of plasticine. Do people want a government with tax principles and fairness at their core or do they just want  a lump of political putty.
Listen, I don't want to get into a debate about the facts, but your last statement is 100 per cent wrong. We've made it clear that any pensioner who's in receipt of a part pension is not affected by our changes, so you can't say - I mean, you can, but it's just not right, when you say that pensioners are going to be affected, that's just not correct.
Well, sorry, no, it’s actually been shown that over time when you pay for less petrol, it actually costs less. But I agree, at the moment the models are expensive, but this isn’t all about what happens next week and it’s not all about trying to take someone’s ute off them.
Because I've never forgotten the men I met there and their families, never forgotten them. They taught me a lot about resilience.
A tough Russian policeman is forced to partner up with a cocky Chicago police detective when he is sent to Chicago to apprehend a Georgian drug lord who killed his partner and fled the country.
dodgeball. Aided by a dodgeball guru and Goodman's attorney, La Fleur and his rag-tag team of underdogs launch a knock-down, drag-out battle in which the winner takes all.
Three detectives in the corrupt and brutal L.A. police force of the 1950s use differing methods to uncover a conspiracy behind the shotgun slayings of the patrons at an all-night diner.
Ms McGowan has always said she's concerned about all of the people in detention, not just the kids. But I’m not going to put any more pressure on her, I’ll leave that to the government.
I'll certainly be watching Four Corners and I thought one of your panellist's comments that maybe the Government was anticipating a pretty tough story, I'll be watching that.
Listen I'm not going to get - sorry, there's only one person who has ever been resurrected and I'm not going to compare Clive Palmer to him. The point about it is, I'm not going to get distracted by Clive Palmer.
I don't have that view. I have made the practice over five years now of not commenting on the polls - good, bad or indifferent.
Well all of the research we've seen and the evidence - between 60 and 90 per cent, I mean you heard that right. I don't own shares in a battery company or a solar company, I'm just interested in getting household power bills down.
In a dystopian near future, single people, according to the laws of The City, are taken to The Hotel, where they are obliged to find a romantic partner in forty-five days or are transformed into beasts and sent off into The Woods.
Absolutely we do, and I certainly think the decision -  because it should be for the new government whoever they are, Liberal or Labor 
See you guys. Thank you.
It will work cooperatively and constructively. I always had the view, back from my days representing workers in negotiations with employers, that no one has got a monopoly on having all the good ideas.
Thank you very much.
No, that wouldn't be right. What we want to do is have real change, because, frankly, more of the same under this government isn't good enough for Australians -
We're going to stick to our existing policies. It's just not fair for our younger generation to not be able to afford their first home when the Government of the day is giving a tax subsidy to property investors to buy their fifth or sixth.
One thousand years after cataclysmic events forced humanity's escape from Earth, Nova Prime has become mankind's new home. Legendary General Cypher Raige returns from an extended tour of duty to his estranged family, ready to be a father to his 13-year-old son, Kitai. When an asteroid storm damages Cypher and Kitai's craft, they crash-land on a now unfamiliar and dangerous Earth. As his father lies dying in the cockpit, Kitai must trek across the hostile terrain to recover their rescue beacon. His whole life, Kitai has wanted nothing more than to be a soldier like his father. Today, he gets his chance.
An extraordinarily intelligent young girl from a cruel and uncaring family discovers she possesses telekinetic powers and is sent off to a school headed by a tyrannical principal.
Cheers.
Yes, I was pleased. I was pleased for the work of Dan Andrews and his team, nothing should take way from their success.
Cal Weaver is living the American dream. He has a good job, a beautiful house, great children and a beautiful wife, named Emily. Cal's seemingly perfect life unravels, however, when he learns that Emily has been unfaithful and wants a divorce. Over 40 and suddenly single, Cal is adrift in the fickle world of dating. Enter, Jacob Palmer, a self-styled player who takes Cal under his wing and teaches him how to be a hit with the ladies.
Oh no I don’t accept that, I accept that what we are doing is creating fairness.
Of course not. I just thought it was wrong and so, that was only a tiny taste.
Politicians out, independent transparent process in.
Oh Hamish, I think there is a little bit of excitement in your heart, you just need to find it. Only a little though, let's not really debate that.
I don’t think any of us that extreme weather events are getting less frequent, are they?
I've tried to ring her to find out what she meant but I think to be fair to Labor her comments have come after the last week of Liberal infighting. I do think that anyone who is feeling bullied has a right to a safe workplace.
First of all, there's what happens before an election. I don't know, Barrie, I think that a lot of people think that despite the press releases coming out of Adani, there's more hype than substance - and history would tend to indicate that.
Well, you know and I know, Fran, that if we don't have the numbers, it can't be done. But what that means in the meantime is that we're jeopardising the authority's cases against 16,000 people - many of whom are alleged to be criminals from us being able to take action.
I will let the review look at all of those issues, that is a legitimate issue. I think that some conservatives say that you should only be temporarily unemployed therefore keep it low and that way it gives incentive for people to get off it, but I don't think keeping it so low actually achieves anything other than is unfair to people very down on their luck.
Well, the Government is playing catch up with Labor in terms of putting more money back into the Catholic schools system.
A dramatic thriller based on the incredible true David vs. Goliath story of American immigrant Dr. Bennet Omalu, the brilliant forensic neuropathologist who made the first discovery of CTE, a football-related brain trauma, in a pro player and fought for the truth to be known. Omalu's emotional quest puts him at dangerous odds with one of the most powerful institutions in the world.
Well, you'd have to say that we're on board somewhat reluctantly. There are some positives in this arrangement, no doubt.
6-year-old Susan Walker has doubts about childhood's most enduring miracle—Santa Claus. Her mother told her the 'secret' about Santa a long time ago, but, after meeting a special department store Santa who's convinced he's the real thing, Susan is given the most precious gift of all—something to believe in.
After defeating Frieza, Goku returns to Earth and goes on a camping trip with Gohan and Krillin. Everything is normal until Cooler - Frieza's brother - sends three henchmen after Goku. A long fight ensues between our heroes and Cooler, in which he transforms into the fourth stage of his evolution and has the edge in the fight... until Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan.
We will once we have announced all of our policies. That will be very soon.
On the run in the year 1987, Bumblebee finds refuge in a junkyard in a small Californian beach town. Charlie, on the cusp of turning 18 and trying to find her place in the world, discovers Bumblebee, battle-scarred and broken.  When Charlie revives him, she quickly learns this is no ordinary yellow VW bug.
I think you'd be fair enough to acknowledge that then, Adani didn't get the finance but now they appear to have got the finance. The other thing of course back then is they were talking about a 60 million tonne mine with 10,000 jobs.
That's an issue for a plebiscite. 
That's alright.
When a madman dubbed 'Scorpio' terrorizes San Francisco, hard-nosed cop, Harry Callahan – famous for his take-no-prisoners approach to law enforcement – is tasked with hunting down the psychopath. Harry eventually collars Scorpio in the process of rescuing a kidnap victim, only to see him walk on technicalities. Now, the maverick detective is determined to nail the maniac himself.
Nicky, a veteran con artist, takes a novice named Jess under his wing. While Nicky teaches Jess the tricks of the trade, the pair become romantically involved; but, when Jess gets uncomfortably close, Nicky ends their relationship. Three years later, Nicky is in Buenos Aires working a very dangerous scheme when Jess -- now an accomplished femme fatale -- unexpectedly shows up. Her appearance throws Nicky for a loop at a time when he cannot afford to be off his game.
Well, I've got a general rule in life that you’re always better talking than having a standoff. It would be better if the leaders turned up.
Yes, let's do that, Leigh. That would be great.
Well I  think that successive governments over the decades have tried to tackle this issue of big cities being overcrowded. How do we get immigrants to go to the bush? Now, what I have said to Scott Morrison is, let's take this issue out of the political colosseum, the political bear-pit, let's work together.
The thing giving people smuggler's the best encouragement in 2018 is the constant billboard which the Government do when they say, oh if Labor gets elected, which is possible at the next election, they are egging the people smuggler's on to try their hand again. It is the Government who constantly say "oh well, if it's not us then the people smugglers will be back in business.
We had a bus long before Scott had it, and we've even been on the bus!
After a mysterious global crisis, a young girl is left alone to hide from a malevolent power that stalks her home. Her parents eventually return and the struggle begins to save their daughter.
Yeah, and I said I'd come to that issue. I said there are two issues.
BSAA Chris Redfield enlists the help of government agent Leon S. Kennedy and Professor Rebecca Chambers from Alexander Institute of Biotechnology to stop a death merchant with a vengeance from spreading a deadly virus in New York.
No, I'm not obsessed by the polls. I've never thought that the election was a foregone conclusion.
That's where the political debate should be - the best ideas 
We are up for reviewing it and we want to review it positively. 
High School student David Lightman (Matthew Broderick) has a talent for hacking. But while trying to hack into a computer system to play unreleased video games, he unwittingly taps into the Defense Department's war computer and initiates a confrontation of global proportions! Together with his girlfriend (Ally Sheedy) and a wizardly computer genius (John Wood), David must race against time to outwit his opponent...and prevent a nuclear Armageddon.
I'm confident, based on the economic reforms that we've engaged in in Opposition, that we will a very positive position on surplus over the four years, and a much better position than the Liberals over the 10 years, because we're winding back unsustainable tax subsidies at the top end, which in fact the Government want to keep.
It will be a matter for the legal system to proceed, he should receive the support any other Australian citizens should receive, the matter is going before court so I don't think there is much more I can add.
Actually, first things first - I am not going to spend my time bagging the current Prime Minister. What I would say, is focus on properly funding the schools and the hospitals.
Well a good analogy I've always used because when I was a union rep sometimes we'd have to have change in workplaces was quite often  I saw corporate leaders say to everyone - use the analogy of a railway station - you're at railway station A and the corporate leaders would say righto to the workforce, you've got to get to railway station B. 
When the evil wizard Gargamel chases the tiny blue Smurfs out of their village, they tumble from their magical world and into ours -- in fact, smack dab in the middle of Central Park. Just three apples high and stuck in the Big Apple, the Smurfs must find a way to get back to their village before Gargamel tracks them down.
There's a point of difference but not the one he's claiming to make. I think after five years this Government should be ashamed of the fact that there are still people on Manus and Nauru and they haven't been resettled.
After proving himself on the field of battle in the French and Indian War, Benjamin Martin wants nothing more to do with such things, preferring the simple life of a farmer. But when his son Gabriel enlists in the army to defend their new nation, America, against the British, Benjamin reluctantly returns to his old life to protect his son.
Well I don't buy what you are selling there, but I will go to this point, I did say that I don't comment on polls - good or bad, but if Mr Morrison, if he thinks that he is doing really well at the moment go and ask his Victorian colleagues. Georgie, what matters is elections and I think on Saturday we saw a big tick for Dan Andrews but also Labor's brand - backing in the schools, backing in the hospitals, getting on with the job not the cuts, the chaos, the division, the scare tactics.
Well, I've known Scott Ryan for some period of time. He is a very sort of sensible considered Liberal.
But we got the right outcome. That day, in front of the State Library was awesome.
Slightly disturbed and painfully shy Angela Baker is sent away to summer camp with her cousin. Not long after Angela's arrival, things start to go horribly wrong for anyone with sinister or less than honorable intentions.
Well, some people say that to me. But with the division and the instability of the government, the fact that the Liberals sacked Malcolm Turnbull nine weeks ago, then they have got to send him to Bali to clean up the new Prime Minister's foreign policy mess, the chaos has got to end.
Yes, I understand that linkage. But what I want to make clear and they are two separate issues.
Up to $2000, yeah.
I'd say that my view on this mine is going to be based on the best science, whether or not it stacks up, and if it is, if it stacks up and passes all the scientific tests, I won't engage in sovereign risk. So in other words we won't arbitrarily upend things.
An eternal romantic falls in love with the girl his father has decided to get him married to, but will his past love affair prove to be a problem?
Well he already is and this is the real heart of the issue. When you get an income tax credit, when you haven't paid income tax, it's a gift from the Government.
Sorry just to correct, when you say controversial, some in the property industry don't like negative gearing changes but a lot of people actually do like it.
Well we've had plenty of administrative heads of the Labor Party who haven't ended up in Parliament. The point about it, in answering your question is that he wasn't able to convince the Labor Party to back him, and it's a free country, if he wants to run for any party, I guess being in a party, that's up to him who he chooses, if he wants to change his views.
But we don't take this election for granted at all. 
Yeah, I accept that some of the unions would rather that we handled it in a different way –
I'd say that's wrong. Our position's very clear.
An Israeli counterterrorism soldier with a secretly fabulous ambition to become a Manhattan hairstylist. Zohan's desire runs so deep that he'll do anything -- including faking his own death and going head-to-head with an Arab cab driver -- to make his dreams come true.
Let's go to Citibank, they're an internationally reputable bank. They say that the consequences in terms of cost, of policies on climate change like ours are immaterial.
Cab driver Max picks up a man who offers him $600 to drive him around. But the promise of easy money sours when Max realizes his fare is an assassin.
Well, if they have a surplus we think this is a good thing but it's because there's increased taxation on companies. The Government can take some pleasure from the surplus but the reason why we will have a surplus is because Australian corporations are paying more company tax.
The infamous story of Benjamin Barker, a.k.a Sweeney Todd, who sets up a barber shop down in London which is the basis for a sinister partnership with his fellow tenant, Mrs. Lovett. Based on the hit Broadway musical.
A young boy whose parents just divorced finds an unlikely friend and mentor in the misanthropic, bawdy, hedonistic, war veteran who lives next door.
Well I have to let the Caucus members have a say, I don't run a top-down organisation, but I think personally Pat Dodson is an outstanding Australian, an outstanding West Australian. I personally approached him to run for the Senate and you know any room that he is in everyone else in the room always feel a bit better because he is such a significant father of reconciliation.
We will do that closer to the election but suffice to say we have done our maths and we are able to pay for the promises we are making. Once we have revealed all of our promises, then we will reveal the costings to back it up.
Hope so, see you.
We want to try and get things done in the Parliament - that's why we're going to keep pushing for a national anti-corruption commission. Labor supports having a national anti-corruption commission.
Well, I just hope that the treating medical advice gets taken seriously. You know, there have been some children coming here anyway.
Yeah, sure. 
Oh no you're right. It was five years ago and eight years ago and we've learned our lesson though.
Well, first of all, it's publicly available, now if we're saying, the campaign against climate change by this government is malicious and stupid. It's malicious because there are elements of this government, the right wing, who have undermined even people in the Liberal Party to take action on climate change, and whenever we talk about common sense on climate change, you just get a scare campaign run by the more extreme elements - just hang on- this is really important, cause climate change is an important issue in this election, and it's a malicious campaign by this government.
No. And let's just be clear on that.
It's not a simple yes or no issue. If we can take people in based upon our infrastructure, based upon the moving to the regions that's a plus.
I don't know if he is back from Bali yet, with the old mop, cleaning up Mr Morrison's problems. But no, I'm going trick or treating.
We're up for that. I mean people are sick of just the negativity.
Well I made the decision, when they first proposed having the plebiscite I thought it was the wrong process, I thought it was an abdication of leadership but then I thought why on earth should we let some Australians go through this process on their own. And so that's why we decided to strongly encourage participation because we couldn't leave people on their own.
A group of students become trapped inside a mysterious cave where they discover time passes differently underground than on the surface.
In danger of losing his business, Anthony Roca, an ordinary man, develops a scam that will become the heist of the century. Overtaken by the crime, he will have to deal with betrayal, murder and settling.
Well I don't hold the children responsible for the mistakes of their parents. You know I don't know all the circumstances but I can understand why a grandmother wants to see her grandchildren safe at home.
Six years have elapsed since Guantanamo Bay, leaving Harold and Kumar estranged from one another with very different families, friends and lives. But when Kumar arrives on Harold's doorstep during the holiday season with a mysterious package in hand, he inadvertently burns down Harold's father-in-law's beloved Christmas tree. To fix the problem, Harold and Kumar embark on a mission through New York City to find the perfect Christmas tree, once again stumbling into trouble at every single turn.
Well the Government sets great store on these matters. It is important we have secure borders but the irony of a boat arriving whilst the former Immigration Minister was competing against the current Home Affairs Minister is not lost on anyone I think.
There couldn't have been anyone who was committing me to a preference deal. No, not aware of that.
Well I actually think that people want to look beyond the next opinion poll to what are we going to do for them and their families. The reason why I want to be Prime Minister Monique, is I want Australia to hand on a better deal to the next generation than the one we received from our parents.
Kit, a troubled girl, is sent to the exclusive Blackwood boarding school, where she discovers that only four other female students have been admitted to learn the four pillars of knowledge under the ominous wing of the mysterious headmistress Madame Duret.
Well, fair's fair. In the six years that the current government have been in, Labor has been united.
A tormented jazz musician finds himself lost in an enigmatic story involving murder, surveillance, gangsters, doppelgangers, and an impossible transformation inside a prison cell.
OK let's go through each of those three points very briefly. There is a cost to Australian business when wage earners are experiencing wage stagnation.
A look behind the scenes at Bernie Madoff's massive Ponzi scheme, how it was perpetrated on the public and the trail of destruction it left in its wake, both for the victims and Madoff's family.
You've got to tell people where they fit in. Change is not too hard but you do have to make sure that you don't leave people behind.
Rachel Keller must prevent evil Samara from taking possession of her son's soul.
No the deal has to stack up on its own merits. I do not support putting a single dollar of taxpayer money into this project.
Well first of all, the issue of climate change has been getting away from Australia for the last ten years. The people of Australia are fed up with politics.
we are grandfathering our proposals. Most people don't know quite what grandfathering means.
A naive young man assumes a dead man's identity and finds himself embroiled in an underground world of power, violence, and chance where men gamble behind closed doors on the lives of other men.
Based on the classic novel by Orson Scott Card, Ender's Game is the story of the Earth's most gifted children training to defend their homeplanet in the space wars of the future.
Well what we can do is we can make sure that if we are going to provide some support for the wages of early childhood educators, again we will say to the operators if Labor is providing some modest improvement in the wages of childhood educators, if Labor is providing a couple of thousand dollars a year for parents, what we say to the childcare operators is you don't get to pocket that. We want childcare to be sustainable, we want cost of living to be tackled and we want to see that the people working in the industry get a fair deal.
Well, first of all let's look at where the house prices have fallen. They've fallen under this government.
our tax system is making it harder for our young ones, our millennials, the younger people to be able to even buy their first home. We have got to start creating a level playing field.
Well, but are they Jon when you think about the issue that Australians haven't voted for Scott Morrison. In fact, I think Mr Morrison owes the Australian people a detailed explanation of why last week happened.
I'm not going to give the Government a blank cheque. We need to see what their final distribution recommendation is to the States.
A paranoia-fueled action thriller about an unsuccessful writer whose life is transformed by a top-secret "smart drug" that allows him to use 100% of his brain and become a perfect version of himself. His enhanced abilities soon attract shadowy forces that threaten his new life in this darkly comic and provocative film.
Rodney Copperbottom is a young robot inventor who dreams of making the world a better place, until the evil Ratchet takes over Big Weld Industries. Now, Rodney's dreams – and those of his friends – are in danger of becoming obsolete.
Well, the Solicitor General's advice that they had, that broadly said that the better view that the Solicitor-General thought was that Mr Joyce was eligible, but they didn't give that categorical assurance and that's the same here. The Solicitor-General is saying that, listen, they think that Minister Dutton is okay, but I wouldn't want to be trying to get a bank loan based on the certainty of that advice of the Solicitor General.
No, not at all. There is still another perhaps up to five months before the election.
we won't be spending as a company director, money chasing votes when they need to go to repay the taxpayers and the workers what they are owed to begin with. It's about priorities.
Well, prices go up and prices go down. It really depends if you're trying to buy or sell a house.
The story of a young man who arrives in Hollywood during the 1930s hoping to work in the film industry, falls in love, and finds himself swept up in the vibrant café society that defined the spirit of the age.
Set in the Depression-era Franklin County, Virginia, a bootlegging gang is threatened by authorities who want a cut of their profits.
That's right.
Seen-it-all New York detective Frank Keller is unsettled - he has done twenty years on the force and could retire, and he hasn't come to terms with his wife leaving him for a colleague. Joining up with an officer from another part of town to investigate a series of murders linked by the lonely hearts columns he finds he is getting seriously and possibly dangerously involved with Helen, one of the main suspects.
We will only ever give you facts - important facts. 
We're certainly more progressive than the current government in Canberra. Listen, I'll let our actions speak for ourselves rather than me put tags on how we will be as a government, my aim is to get elected first but what I can promise Australians is for example, if you've got a three or four year old we'll make sure they get access to kindergarten for free.
Well first of all, full credit to Daniel Andrews and the State Labor Government. They submitted their record and got a renewed mandate, a bigger mandate, so nothing takes away from that.
A fairy tale love-story about pre-med student Paige who falls in love with a Danish Prince "Eddie" who refused to follow the traditions of his parents and has come to the US to quench his thirst for rebellion. Paige and Edward come from two different worlds, but there is an undeniable attraction between them.
So I've had a day off the bus and I'll go back on the bus on Monday.
We will have a good look at them. We have backed 15 sets of changes.
Oh yes.
Look forward to it, cheerio.
A college-age brother and sister get more than they bargained for on their road trip home from spring break. When the bickering siblings witness a creepy truck driver tossing body bags into a sewer near an abandoned church, they investigate. Bad move! Opening a Pandora's Box of unspeakable evil, the pair must flee for their lives -- with a monstrous "shape" in hot pursuit.
Not at all, it depends if you want federal tax money or not. 
The problem with what you're saying is that you assume that there's no cost to doing nothing, and there is. That's why Australians wants real change at this election.
Well, the fact of the matter is we are arguing for a change in Australia. We don't want to - I mean, I think this Government is disgraceful in that they are offering a thread-bare policy agenda.
The Nazis, exasperated at the number of escapes from their prison camps by a relatively small number of Allied prisoners, relocates them to a high-security 'escape-proof' camp to sit out the remainder of the war. Undaunted, the prisoners plan one of the most ambitious escape attempts of World War II. Based on a true story.
A high school swim champion with a troubled past enrolls in the U.S. Coast Guard's 'A' School, where legendary rescue swimmer, Ben Randall teaches him some hard lessons about loss, love, and self-sacrifice.
I think there is a bit of a difference there Baz. First of all, what we are saying is that in workplace relations, just one set of laws.
Any questions about this or other matters?
I always enjoy talking to you guys. 
Yeah, but do you know what? For the last six years we have been debating the Liberals. We are talking to the people.
That will be up to the Australian people, Georgie but if I am, I won't let you or the Australian people down. We're going to focus on the people, not on ourselves.
If you're asking me to specify what a particular company in a particular factory will have to do, I can't do that, nor could you, nor can the Government. 
Hang on, you have five questions there. Let's do them one at a time.
There comes a point in everyone’s life when you have to make a decision about the direction you’re going to take. For newly-18 American fashion model Cora, that time is now. She’s moved to an Australian coastal town to be with her favourite aunt, after a 'fashion faux pas’ back home.
Steve Ford is a private detective in Venice Beach, Calif., who's good with the ladies, bad with the punches and wild about his dog Buddy. When local thugs steal Buddy, Ford turns to Spyder, their devious leader, and forges an unlikely alliance. With help from his best friend, Steve pulls out the big guns to retrieve Spyder's stolen cash and cocaine and save Buddy.
A long-lost music producer finds a singer-songwriter right about the moment he has given up all hope on life.
Let's say it as it is, the Australian people are so far ahead of the politicians on renewable energy it's not a joke but what I am going to do if we get elected is we're backing renewables, we're backing the batteries, we want people to get between a 60 and 90 per cent reduction off their household bills. That's what you get over the lifetime of installing batteries and solar.
Being one of 101 takes its toll on Patch, who doesn't feel unique. When he's accidentally left behind on moving day, he meets his idol, Thunderbolt, who enlists him on a publicity campaign.
No, that doesn't mean that people never talk to me but listen I think that what we've got to do is - the media plays an important role, people are entitled to their opinions.
A Muslim ambassador exiled from his homeland, Ahmad ibn Fadlan finds himself in the company of Vikings. While the behavior of the Norsemen initially offends ibn Fadlan, the more cultured outsider grows to respect the tough, if uncouth, warriors. During their travels together, ibn Fadlan and the Vikings get word of an evil presence closing in, and they must fight the frightening and formidable force, which was previously thought to exist only in legend.
It won't have an appreciable impact on the price of housing.
I can understand why Malcolm might say that but I have to say when you're Labor and you deal with some of the critique in the media you don't let it distract you from what's important.
I think he should receive consular assistance beyond that, I don't know all the facts of the matter and he should deserve the ability to be able to represent it in court which he will be.
I think we're competitive but we're not arrogant. When I come to Western Australia I don't look at Liberal Western Australians and Labor Western Australians or you know, Independent Western Australians - I just see Western Australians.
Well, we'd have to see the numbers and decide if we wanted to do that. But in light of this announcement, let me just say, I think Dan Andrews is on the right track -
When Sarah Marshall dumps aspiring musician Peter Bretter for rock star Aldous Snow, Peter's world comes crashing down. His best friend suggests that Peter should get away from everything and to fly off to Hawaii to escape all his problems. After arriving in Hawaii and meeting the beautiful Rachel Jansen, Peter is shocked to see not only Aldous Snow in Hawaii, but also Sarah Marshall.
A Victorian surgeon rescues a heavily disfigured man being mistreated by his "owner" as a side-show freak. Behind his monstrous façade, there is revealed a person of great intelligence and sensitivity. Based on the true story of Joseph Merrick (called John Merrick in the film), a severely deformed man in 19th century London.
Oscar Diggs, a small-time circus illusionist and con-artist, is whisked from Kansas to the Land of Oz where the inhabitants assume he's the great wizard of prophecy, there to save Oz from the clutches of evil.
A wife questions her life choices as she travels to Stockholm with her husband, where he is slated to receive the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Well first of all you know that we’ve offered Channel Nine the opportunity to do it through the Press Club. You have declined.
Nothing at all, all I'm saying is that when we talk about fiscal management what happens in Australia is that it's not the politicians who drive for good fiscal outcomes in Australia it is the companies, it's the people who go to work. 
Well, you keep going on cost. I want to say to you let's get this straight.
Thank you. In terms of the treatment of the children on Nauru, I have been watching very carefully what the AMA have been saying.
No. You know I did the shopping today in Moonee Ponds where I live and people were saying bring on the Federal Election, and some people would say that Labor has it in the bag, Idon't think that at all.
In this animated retelling of the story from the Bible's Book of Genesis, Joseph's gift of dream interpretation and his brilliantly colored coat inspires jealousy in his brothers.
A former Secret Service agent grudgingly takes an assignment to protect a pop idol who's threatened by a crazed fan. At first, the safety-obsessed bodyguard and the self-indulgent diva totally clash. But before long, all that tension sparks fireworks of another sort, and the love-averse tough guy is torn between duty and romance.
Well he couldn't even bring it to the Parliament.
In 2019, Lincoln Six-Echo is a resident of a seemingly "Utopian" but contained facility. Like all of the inhabitants of this carefully-controlled environment, Lincoln hopes to be chosen to go to The Island — reportedly the last uncontaminated location on the planet. But Lincoln soon discovers that everything about his existence is a lie.
In an attempt to free himself from a state of forgotten limbo, evil dream-demon Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) devises a plan to manipulate un-dead mass murderer Jason Voorhees (Ken Kirzenger) into slicing-and-dicing his way through the teenage population of Springwood.  But when the master of dreams loses control of his monster, a brutal fight to the death is the only way out in this long anticipated crossover between two of modern horror's most notorious killers!
An  U.S. Spaceship lands on a desolate planet, stranding astronaut Taylor in a world dominated by apes, 2000 years into the future, who use a primitive race of humans for experimentation and sport. Soon Taylor finds himself among the hunted, his life in the hands of a benevolent chimpanzee scientist.
A woman turns to prescription medication as a way of handling her anxiety concerning her husband's upcoming release from prison.
Well, we'll be pursuing it. It really depends on what sort of pressure the government has brought on the crossbenchers.
Yes it's good. It's really good.
Thanks guys.
No. Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand, the Labour Prime Minister there, went to a series of countries on provisions which a conservative government had signed up to, and executed letters with those countries and both countries agreed not to go ahead with that.
It's always possible to get airtime if you're willing to say silly things but if you want to have a strong, sensible, centrist debate and this is what Mr Turnbull perhaps missed the opportunity to do, he came in with a lot of good will, is you have to lead but you can lead from the centre. You don't have to say extreme things to get things done.
No. What we're going to do is prioritise, and I'll give you the key features of what we're doing.
A getaway driver for a bank robbery realizes he has been double crossed and races to find out who betrayed him.
Well, maybe - but he hasn't moved to embassy either, so - 
No, no, hang on, Leigh. You keep characterising my policies -
Fairness. We think that Australia Day is about Australian values.
No, no. Let's -
Mind you, I didn't think they'd roll Malcolm, so what would I know. 
Sorry what was the last bit of your question?
Mowgli has been living in the man-village with his little stepbrother Ranjan and his best friend Shanti. But the man-cub still has that jungle rhythm in his heart, and he misses his old buddies Baloo and Bagheera. When Mowgli wanders back to the wild for some swingin' fun, he soon finds the man-eating tiger Shere Khan is lurking in the shadows and planning his revenge.
The action-packed and captivating tale of Dee Renjie's beginnings in the Imperial police force. His very first case, investigating reports of a sea monster terrorizing the town, reveals a sinister conspiracy of treachery and betrayal, leading to the highest reaches of the Imperial family.
First of all, the first conversation I had for him was to thank him for his service to the nation. I've spoken to former Prime Ministers Rudd and Gillard, I've spoken to John Howard on occasion, I've spoken to Tony Abbott.
I think it is a range, I don't think it's one stereotype at all. You get people who are older who, the factory closes, they are thrown all of a sudden on the scrap heap and told they are not worth something.
In terms of the commercial high jump bar, yeah they've passed that.
Perhaps if you bear with me for a moment, I'll answer your question. 
And did you know since then - what is it? 5,420 marriages have occurred. That's good.
A young soldier faces profound disillusionment in the soul-destroying horror of World War I. Together with several other young German soldiers, he experiences the horrors of war, such evil of which he had not conceived of when signing up to fight. They eventually become sad, tormented, and confused of their purpose.
To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate believes three year old child care is a political conspiracy. To the best of my knowledge, no Labor candidate is a supporting a 12 per cent corporate tax rate, which is a massive tax cut for the big end of town.
When Russia's first nuclear submarine malfunctions on its maiden voyage, the crew must race to save the ship and prevent a nuclear disaster.
I enjoyed the debate.
We can legislate to restore the penalty rates on Sundays and public holidays that have been cut. We can also put in place measures which will encourage closing the gender pay gap.
Well, let’s go back to this. When you give a tax credit to someone who is not paying income tax, that is a gift.
Well no, Fran, what I'm not going to do is engage in that debate. But what I'll say to you, Fran, is if the Liberal Party thinks that on Monday, as we approach the last two weeks of Parliament, they're doing really well - well then, I've got a bridge over the mouth of Yarra I want to sell 'em.
Julian, who runs a Thai boxing club as a front organization for his family's drug smuggling operation, is forced by his mother Crystal to find and kill the individual responsible for his brother's recent death.
We haven't finalised our position, but I think that the unions and indeed a lot of people from the Reserve Bank onwards, are all saying that everything is going up in Australia except wages. The system is not working in that what is happening is that corporate profits are going up, some people are doing very well thank you very much.
Young Shakespeare is forced to stage his latest comedy, "Romeo and Ethel, the Pirate's Daughter," before it's even written. When a lovely noblewoman auditions for a role, they fall into forbidden love -- and his play finds a new life (and title). As their relationship progresses, Shakespeare's comedy soon transforms into tragedy.
It is up to them. 
The Liberals are lying about tax. I don't want to talk too much about it.
Well come along to Box Hill today where we’re going to talk more about how we are going to look after early childhood educators. Early childhood educators, it is a 96 per cent female dominated industry.
Well, my absolute conviction and belief, is that if we don't change, then the cost will be far greater than any initial investments.
How does that help keep us safe and strong?
Sure.
Well Mr Morrison will have to call an election in the next five months, they have to. What we're going to do is take nothing for granted, the people haven't voted yet.
In the year 50 BC, Gaul is occupied by the Romans - nearly. But the small village of Asterix and his friends still resists the Roman legions with the aid of their druid's magic potion, which gives superhuman strength. Learning of this potion, a Roman centurion kidnaps the druid to get the secret formula out of him.
Well first of all, we think that the Commonwealth and the politicians should have an anti-corruption commission. We want it to be a body which is created by law, that it is independent of government.
Good on you, Karl. Have a lovely day.
Well, you made a preamble to this question. I have answered questions on climate change many times, many times.
Sarah, you know, it’s about time we buried the sausage scandal of 2016. I did eat it sideways but, you know I had very good reasons.
No, what we are able to do is we are prioritising schools and hospitals over creating richer multinationals and more tax minimisers in you know, Caribbean Islands. That's how we pay for our promises.
First of all it’s a silly policy and it’s a policy that isn't going to happen. In terms of the Greens, what I say to them next time they catch a tram - trams run on steel.
Well, there's two ingredients, aren't there? First of all, there's permanent migration. The current Prime Minister says that he will lower the cap from 190,000 to 160,000.
Well, I think Mr Porter's problem is that the Prime Minister who he supported for the last three years say's there a problem and for the sake of certainty, you're best off referring it to the High Court. 
You can't have it all ways, you can't say when will you tell people ..
No, I’m happy if you do. What car you choose to drive is your business.
Well that's going to be a matter for the state and federal regulators isn't it.
Oh no. Listen, you and I know that, and more importantly Australians know, this is a Government who is going to run on fear and negativity.
Do you know what? I think Mr Dutton should refer himself. 
Yeah, I was with the Australian Workers Union, I was the Victorian Secretary and I was involved in trying to protect the workforce from the unfair blame of the company and trying to make sense of what had happened. And I met some fabulous local workforce at Longford, some have passed, but some I hope to see today at Longford.
Well no, fair's fair. I do think that people are very disillusioned, but you can't mark me down because we're willing to properly fund education and just dismiss it as spin.
Listen, the Liberals are lying about taxes. Let's just call it as it is.
Well, what we'll do in our way is we’ll put more investment in the Territory. I get there's a legitimate concern to make sure that no one gets disadvantaged in GST, and it was Labor nationally, working with the McGowan Government in Western Australia, who ensured the West got their fair share.
Yes, I am confident that we have got positive policies and we don't need to go down the negative divisive path. One difference between me and the current Government - we are united.
Set in 1977, back when sex was safe, pleasure was a business and business was booming, idealistic porn producer Jack Horner aspires to elevate his craft to an art form. Horner discovers Eddie Adams, a hot young talent working as a busboy in a nightclub, and welcomes him into the extended family of movie-makers, misfits and hangers-on that are always around. Adams' rise from nobody to a celebrity adult entertainer is meteoric, and soon the whole world seems to know his porn alter ego, "Dirk Diggler". Now, when disco and drugs are in vogue, fashion is in flux and the party never seems to stop, Adams' dreams of turning sex into stardom are about to collide with cold, hard reality.
Good morning Edwina.
Not paying attention to his job, a young demon allows the evil cleansing machine to overflow and explode, turning the young demon into the infamous monster Janemba. Goku and Vegeta make solo attempts to defeat the monster, but realize their only option is fusion.
Well, there are positives in this agreement too, for our farmers, for our steel industry, for our higher education sector.
Well we've got to find out why it happened and what happened. I'm not going to leap to any conclusions.
Valerie is in love with a brooding outsider, Peter, but her parents have arranged for her to marry another man – who is wealthy. Unwilling to lose each other, Valerie and Peter plan to run away together when they learn that Valerie's older sister has been killed by a werewolf that prowls the dark forest surrounding their village. Hungry for revenge, the people call on famed werewolf hunter, Father Solomon, to help them kill the wolf. But Solomon's arrival brings unintended consequences as he warns that the wolf, who takes human form by day, could be any one of them.
A hotshot Washington criminal lawyer becomes the target of a rogue security executive videotaped in the act of murdering a congressman when the incriminating tape is surreptitiously slipped into his shopping bag by the videographer, who is fleeing the executive's assassins.
First of all on the pledge, no I am not going to sign it. But you can deduce from that nothing other than I am not going to sign a pledge.
Furious that her late father only willed her his gloomy-looking mansion rather than his millions, Carrigan Crittenden is ready to burn the place to the ground when she discovers a map to a treasure hidden in the house. But when she enters the rickety mansion to seek her claim, she is frightened away by a wicked wave of ghosts. Determined to get her hands on this hidden fortune, she hires afterlife therapist Dr. James Harvey to exorcise the ghosts from the mansion. Harvey and his daughter Kat move in, and soon Kat meets Casper, the ghost of a young boy who's "the friendliest ghost you know." But not so friendly are Casper's uncles--Stretch, Fatso and Stinkie--who are determined to drive all "fleshies" away.
Based on a true story set in pre-war Japan, a man and one of his servants begin a torrid affair. Their desire becomes a sexual obsession so strong that to intensify their ardor, they forsake all, even life itself.
A troubled psychologist is sent to investigate the crew of an isolated research station orbiting a bizarre planet.
Set in the ghettos of Paris in 2010, an undercover cop and ex-thug try to infiltrate a gang in order to defuse a neutron bomb.
Wart is a young boy who aspires to be a knight's squire. On a hunting trip he falls in on Merlin, a powerful but amnesiac wizard who has plans for him beyond mere squiredom. He starts by trying to give him an education, believing that once one has an education, one can go anywhere. Needless to say, it doesn't quite work out that way.
Our climate change plans will grow the economy, they'll create jobs and they'll lower power prices. I notice there's been a bit of a debate and a bit of a scare campaign by the News Limited papers talking about international offsets for carbon pollution reduction.
When CIA Analyst Jack Ryan interferes with an IRA assassination, a renegade faction targets Jack and his family as revenge.
Well, this is the other good news - what it's going to mean is if you can store the energy during the day - say the family watching the show this morning, the kids go off to school, mum and dad might go to work - what happens is at the moment, if you have just got solar panels, you don't get the energy when you need it which is in the evenings, when the kids turn computers on and you need the energy. The beauty of the batteries is that the energy is going to be there when you need it not just when the sun is shining.
Oh, two questions, OK.
I had a dream...sleeping with you and Hwa-yeong.  Jin-goo and Joo-hee were happy until one day their daughter Hwa-yeong, who had eloped with another man, came home. Hwa-yeong and Jin-goo were a couple at school and she had gotten pregnant. So things took place quickly and they got to live with Hwa-yeong's mother Joo-hee. However, when Hwa-yeong found out she wasn't pregnant, hit it off with another man and left the house. Jin-goo and Joo-hee had fallen in love while she was gone. Hwa-yeong had broken up with her other man and came home. However, she finds it weird that Jin-goo is still at her mother's house. Jin-goo and Joo-hee put out all sorts of lies to hide the truth from Hwa-yeong.
No, she has strong views. I like Melissa.
An American pilot is sent to a Chinese province to teach a crew of would-be pilots how to fly war planes against the Japanese during World War II.
A bigoted junkie cop suffering from bipolar disorder and drug addiction manipulates and hallucinates his way through the festive season in a bid to secure promotion and win back his wife and daughter.
A deadly airborne virus finds its way into the USA and starts killing off people at an epidemic rate. Col Sam Daniels' job is to stop the virus spreading from a small town, which must be quarantined, and to prevent an over reaction by the White House.
In the future, a strange fungus has changed nearly everyone into a thoughtless, flesh-eating monster. When a scientist and a teacher find a girl who seems to be immune to the fungus, they all begin a journey to save humanity.
We will in principle. I mean it would have to be a pretty amazing reason not to.
The rebellious Thracian Spartacus, born and raised a slave, is sold to Gladiator trainer Batiatus. After weeks of being trained to kill for the arena, Spartacus turns on his owners and leads the other slaves in rebellion. As the rebels move from town to town, their numbers swell as escaped slaves join their ranks. Under the leadership of Spartacus, they make their way to southern Italy, where they will cross the sea and return to their homes.
I'm not choosing it, the scientists say it. It's what we've got to do to stop the planet getting warmer.
NYPD detectives Christopher Danson (Johnson) and P.K. Highsmith (Jackson) are the baddest and most beloved cops in New York City. They don't get tattoos, other men get tattoos of them. Two desks over and one back, sit detectives Allen Gamble (Ferrell) and Terry Hoitz (Wahlberg). You've seen them in the background of photos of Danson and Highsmith, out of focus and eyes closed. They're not heroes, they're "the other guys." But every cop has his or her day and soon Gamble and Hoitz stumble into a seemingly innocuous case no other detective wants to touch that could turn into NYC's biggest crime. It's the opportunity of their lives, but do these guys have the right stuff?
Charlie Kenton is a washed-up fighter who retired from the ring when robots took over the sport. After his robot is trashed, he reluctantly teams up with his estranged son to rebuild and train an unlikely contender.
Cheers, see you mate.
Who gets on the front bench is ultimately decided by the Caucus. But I think all things being equal that would be the case, yes.
The adventures of a heroic and debonair stalwart mouse named Stuart Little with human qualities, who faces some comic misadventures while searching for his lost bird friend and living with a human family as their child.
First of all, they are 2 different issues.
Well there's two issues there. One is the person and the other is the office.
Well, I want to try and answer -
Blonde Betty Elms has only just arrived in Hollywood to become a movie star when she meets an enigmatic brunette with amnesia. Meanwhile, as the two set off to solve the second woman's identity, filmmaker Adam Kesher runs into ominous trouble while casting his latest project.
A passionate holiday romance leads to an obsessive relationship when an Australian photojournalist wakes one morning in a Berlin apartment and is unable to leave.
A young man goes to his father's home in Maine where, helped by a public registry, he locates and tracks down sex offenders. In parallel, his mother follows his trail in order to try to understand what could have pushed him into this murderous madness.
Retired C.I.A. agent Frank Moses reunites his unlikely team of elite operatives for a global quest to track down a missing portable nuclear device.
Well I've explained that I didn't understand the question that was being asked.
I certainly don't think the outcome of the next election is at all decided. That will be decided by 15 or 16 million voters whenever the Government finally call an election.
And the Commonwealth public service.

The setting is Detroit in 1995. The city is divided by 8 Mile, a road that splits the town in half along racial lines. A young white rapper, Jimmy "B-Rabbit" Smith Jr. summons strength within himself to cross over these arbitrary boundaries to fulfill his dream of success in hip hop. With his pal Future and the three one third in place, all he has to do is not choke.
And if you don't have an explanation for how you're going to educate the kids or look after the sick or deal with our environment or make sure that we've got economic growth which is in the interests of everyone not just the lucky few, then people are going to say, they're going to look for more extreme solutions and just say no, we're not interested in this version of change which doesn't have a place for us in it. 
Advertising executive Nick Marshall is as cocky as they come, but what happens to a chauvinistic guy when he can suddenly hear what women are thinking? Nick gets passed over for a promotion, but after an accident enables him to hear women's thoughts, he puts his newfound talent to work against Darcy, his new boss, who seems to be infatuated with him.
Yeah well, there is a way to go, things close up. But what I'm going to do is focus on the people.
Sure. But I actually think Sale Secondary College is also important.
Well I don't think this country is getting a better deal from the third Liberal Prime Minister in five years. I don't think they do have a clear plan except to respond to events.
Yeah –
There's no doubt that if we back renewable energy, renewable energy is cheaper than existing forms of power in the future.
It mightn't be enough, I get that so - 
Good morning Michael.
I think the nation is sick and tired after ten years of arguing about climate change that we just don't get on with it. Energy prices have just gone up and up and up, in Sydney, 26 per cent on average nationally, 19 per cent.
What we have said is that we are going to review the Newstart allowance. It is, in my opinion too low.
This movie was followed by a sequel (The Japanese Wife Next Door – Part 2) which features the exact same cast, but follows Takashi’s fate if he had married Mina (the other woman he shared the drink with that night) instead.
His unholy sexual passion for his sister, his marriage to Rome's most infamous prostitute, his fiendishly inventive means of disposing those who would oppose him, and more.
Well good point. We are keeping an eye on this.
In the year 10,191, the world is at war for control of the desert planet Dune – the only place where the time-travel substance 'Spice' can be found. But when one leader gives up control, it's only so he can stage a coup with some unsavory characters.
Cinderella's Hot Night presents a lively retelling of the classic fairy tale...with a slightly more mature, erotic twist. Follow the adventures of the bewildered Cindy as she falls prey to her wicked sex-crazed benefactor all the while pining for her secret love, a noble European Prince. With the help of her smoking hot Fairy Godmother, Cindy finally realizes her dream of becoming a real-life Princess.
No, I haven’t quite got around to that.
Thanks for the conversation, Leigh. It was great.
Well all the research and science and experts make it clear that the more early years learning we can give our kids before they go to school, it just absolutely, quantum improves their learning experience at schools. So Labor has made a decision that we want to offer universal preschool, 15 hours a week, 40 weeks of the year, to all three and four year olds in Australia.
Lucky Luke becomes the Sheriff of Daisy Town and runs out all the criminals. Then the Dalton brothers arrive and try to get the Indians to break the peace treaty and attack the town.
love.
After watching their respective partners die, a cop and a hitman form an alliance in order to bring down their common enemy.
No. No.
Well we set up the National Disability Insurance Scheme when I was last in government. 
Wow. 
Maybe we need to have a plebiscite  - I don't know.
I think that we can miss out on what's happening around the world, you know climate change and the investment in renewables is one example but I think your question is going to a deeper point. Is change too hard in Australia and I don't think it is.
There will be no change to existing investors.
I just didn’t realise that we had a technophobic government who is afraid of new technology.
There are a number of points in what you say. First of all, enterprise bargaining was introduced 25 years ago.
There's 250 companies caught by our safeguards mechanism, the same safeguard mechanism the current government applies to 120, each company will respond differently. You and I know that the reason why the government's trying to focus on how much it might cost to put in a new renewable energy system is that they're trying to distract from the fact they have no climate change policy.
I've spoken to him a few times. But I notice the conspiracy of the far right against Malcolm Turnbull.
Thank you Jon.
Well I tell you what the numbers on me were the same before the State Election as they are now, but we’re doing pretty well. We’re doing well because we focus on people.
The adventures of two California Highway Patrol motorcycle officers as they make their rounds on the freeways of Los Angeles.
A retired pop singer turned actress' sense of reality is shaken when she is stalked by an obsessed fan and seemingly a ghost of her past.
Well this is my sixth January as Opposition Leader and what I'm hearing all over Australia, not just Queensland, is people are sick of the instability. So when you say what am I targeting, I don't look at Queensland as LNP or Labor, I just look at them as Queenslanders.
No that was the other part of your question, I said come back to it. So I think Julie Bishop's, for a Liberal, done a good job in foreign affairs.
Baby Bink couldn't ask for more; he has adoring (if somewhat sickly-sweet) parents, he lives in a huge mansion, and he's just about to appear in the social pages of the paper. Unfortunately, not everyone in the world is as nice as Baby Bink's parents; especially the three enterprising kidnapers who pretend to be photographers from the newspaper. Successfully kidnaping Baby Bink, they have a harder time keeping hold of the rascal, who not only keeps one step ahead of them, but seems to be more than a little bit smarter than the three bumbling criminals.
We've got the policies which are in the interests of working and middle Australia. To people listening to this show now who are just fed up with politics, I get that.
Author P.L. Travers travels from London to Hollywood as Walt Disney Pictures adapts her novel Mary Poppins for the big screen.
Jack Ryan, as a young covert CIA analyst, uncovers a Russian plot to crash the U.S. economy with a terrorist attack.
Barrie, is this Liberal government, this protection racket for the banks scandals and rip-offs we’ve seen, are they really telling Australians that the only way that we can have a banking sector is to have an unethical banking sector? I don't buy that, nor do thousands of farmers and small businesses and people who have been ripped off by the banks. I for one have been shocked.
It'll be great. Long overdue.
Pakistan-born comedian Kumail Nanjiani and grad student Emily Gardner fall in love but struggle as their cultures clash. When Emily contracts a mysterious illness, Kumail finds himself forced to face her feisty parents, his family's expectations, and his true feelings.
No, I'm not going to criticise Kevin there, I think he's entitled to his opinion, he's earned it the hard way and I think also, in answering that question about Mr Rudd that's the difference between Labor and Liberal. I acknowledge what Kevin and Julia have done, they did some good things.
A New Jersey guy dedicated to his family, friends, and church, develops unrealistic expectations from watching porn and works to find happiness and intimacy with his potential true love.
I will get Brendan to supplement the answer. We are not going to pick a final number but I will state this.
Yes ours is a nine day tour, although because it overlapped with the weekend, I've had a day on the Sunshine Coast. I'm here at Moffat Beach - it's in the People's Republic of Caloundra.
No. I've written to Mr Morrison - this is all pretty fast moving as you’d appreciate -  what I have written to Mr Morrison is a letter where I congratulate him, but I've also read media reports that they are rushing to appoint a new Governor-General, although the existing Governor-General's term doesn't finish until the end of March next year.
Let's be fair here, Leigh. Let’s be fair.
Well first of all, the only way that you could follow the government’s logic is if you would stop investing in property in Australia. The reality is most people invest in property because it is a good deal.
You've declined. I am sorry if you are busy at lunchtime.
I think there are some things that we can do -
Yes. So I think the Government doesn't want to have an election, but on the other hand I think the people of  Australia are feeling quite left out of all the decisions that have been happening recently.
Well, first of all, we have said that if you currently negatively gear, you will keep negative gearing. So it has no change to any Australian watching this show today.
Because it is costing $6 billion. The reality is that when you go to hospital it costs a lot more than $2000, I need to find money for our ageing population.
No. Let's go to one.
A man struggles with memories of his past, including a wife he cannot remember, in a nightmarish world with no sun and run by beings with telekinetic powers who seek the souls of humans.
Well, I think that part of the reason why Clive Palmer is copping some criticism is that he used to run a nickel plant or business interest associated with it in Townsville. And that nickel plant went into insolvency and workers were left with unpaid wages and entitlements - the taxpayers had to step into the shoes of Palmer and pay the workers their entitlements.
Yeah no, that’s somewhere with the Burberry trench coat. 
Every other level of government has an anti-corruption commission, other states have. I think that there's a lot that we can learn from those lessons.
James Bond returns as the secret agent 007 one more time to battle the evil organization SPECTRE. Bond must defeat Largo, who has stolen two atomic warheads for nuclear blackmail. But Bond has an ally in Largo's girlfriend, the willowy Domino, who falls for Bond and seeks revenge. This is the last time for Sean Connery as Her Majesty's Secret Agent 007. Made outside of the traditional Broccoli production environment due to separate rights having been obtained for this specific Ian Fleming story.
Ben Campbell is a young, highly intelligent, student at M.I.T. in Boston who strives to succeed. Wanting a scholarship to transfer to Harvard School of Medicine with the desire to become a doctor, Ben learns that he cannot afford the $300,000 for the four to five years of schooling as he comes from a poor, working-class background. But one evening, Ben is introduced by his unorthodox math professor Micky Rosa into a small but secretive club of five. Students Jill, Choi, Kianna, and Fisher, who are being trained by Professor Rosa of the skill of card counting at blackjack.
they want to look after the top end of town by cutting services to everyone.
Well I think that is essentially Mark's judgement, that he doesn't think it is going to happen and he doesn't support it. I think a lot of people feel that way.
The Wishbone family is far from happy. With a struggling bookshop, an overworked husband, and two misunderstood teenagers, Emma is at her wit's end trying to be the perfect mom. After dragging her family to a costume party on Halloween night, they are cursed by an evil witch and transformed into a Vampire, a Mummy, a Werewolf, and Frankenstein's monster. Now Emma will fight to keep her Monster Family together and uncover the secret of their curse... eventually leading them to the Prince of Darkness himself, Dracula!
I think there is disillusionment with institutions generally. I don't think a lot of people trust the media.
When a young boy makes a wish at a carnival machine to be big—he wakes up the following morning to find that it has been granted and his body has grown older overnight. But he is still the same 13-year-old boy inside. Now he must learn how to cope with the unfamiliar world of grown-ups including getting a job and having his first romantic encounter with a woman.
Well under Scott Morrison, immigration has gone up, not down. I mean, this is politics.
Well the franking credits, that's still prospective. Without everyone being bored to tears about the issue, in 1987, Paul Keating introduced the scheme, basic principle of tax equity, he said you shouldn't pay tax twice.
No. Let's go to that.
if you want to keep driving a petrol car, you can. Excellent.
You can't sugar-coat this. This is an Australian citizen who has been detained in China, the Embassy has just been notified.
Snoopy embarks upon his greatest mission as he and his team take to the skies to pursue their arch-nemesis, while his best pal Charlie Brown begins his own epic quest.
Well first of all, I understand the frustration of Australians about crowded infrastructure, and our immigration should be what's in the national interest but part of that debate has to be fixing up our infrastructure.
He's a vegetarian. When a lie turns Oscar into an improbable hero and Lenny becomes an outcast, the two form an unlikely friendship.
Have a lovely morning guys. The swimming program is really important, it's good policy.
Hang on a second. As you would know as a seasoned journalist, there is always plenty of conversations.
Yeah I think that there is - and it's not just the regions. You know, South Australia, there are plenty of places who would like to take some migrants.
I do think that there's too much bullying goes on and by that, I don't necessarily know what has happened to her and I don't have the facts but I have seen some of the Government rush to say oh it's all made up or that's just life. Sure, in adversarial politics you're going to disagree and things get said but I don't know what has gone on last week.
Twenty-eight-year-old Georgia is convinced the man of her dreams is "the one that got away" back in high school. When Georgia learns of her high school reunion a week before Christmas, she's ecstatic to finally have her chance to win Craig back. But as she gets to relive high school for a night, she begins to realize it might not be Craig at all who got away, but Ben, an old friend with whom she'd fallen out of touch.
Well good point. I think back in 2004, the then Labor Party in Parliament felt a bit stampeded.
Batman and Nightwing are forced to team with the Joker's sometimes-girlfriend Harley Quinn to stop a global threat brought about by Poison Ivy and Jason Woodrue, the Floronic Man.
Yeah, I've got to say that I think we should have an Australian head of state but my family, my eight year old is driving me crazy to meet Meghan Markle - there's no question that the royals - that every little girl loves a princess. 
No, it was everyone. It was a collective effort.
There they go again, the government. They already sound like they're backpedalling on making the banks accountable.
CIA Analyst Jack Ryan is drawn into an illegal war fought by the US government against a Colombian drug cartel.
Oh, I'm not getting ahead of myself. What we're going to do is not focus so much on the Government and the personalities but on our plan for the future.
All-stars from the previous Step Up installments come together in glittering Las Vegas, battling for a victory that could define their dreams and their careers.
What does that mean, he's not going to assassinate someone? I mean, sorry, but if you want to change the era I think the Liberals need to do some time in opposition to understand how fundamentally people don't like this. 
Spans the period from 1958 to the present day and tells the story of an unconditional love between a mother and her daughter which is endangered by an unsteady and manipulative father.
White Castle hamburgers. Both guys are at a crossroads, about to make major decisions that will affect the course of their lives. Yet they arrive at wisdom by accident as they drive around New Jersey in search of fast food.
Listen, I think what happened is that people just want you to get on with the job. I don’t think everyone agrees with everything that Labor says, and people don’t agree with everything the Liberals say.
Yeah. I would pick a more positive number than costs.
Well first of all, it is just a nonsense claim. It is a nonsense claim and it is built upon the back of a big lie.
They still are. They still are.
They have invented iView You know it is possible to do an interview at one point in the day - 
– sure 
Well, I was in Whyalla today, talking to the people who run OneSteel and they made it clear that they're investing in more renewable energy. So there is a cost to investing in new technology but they're absolutely convinced that the only way we will keep making steel in Australia is by investing in renewable energy.
No, it's still got a long way to go. That would be too arrogant to just assume that the election is over.
We're committed to putting in place anti-bulling programs. Keeping kids safe shouldn't be the matter of the politics that it is.
The incredible true story behind the most controversial Italian court cases in recent years. Stefano Cucchi was arrested for a minor crime and mysteriously found dead during his detention. In one week's time, a family is changed forever.
Occasionally we do.
It's not even true so it's not that tough to counter. If we stop -
If we want to talk about conflicting positions, let's be even handed here, Leigh. You have got all these Scott Morrison Liberals down in Melbourne and Sydney, they call themselves "modern Liberals", and you've got the LNP in Queensland with a different view.
Cheerio, bye-bye.
All right, good chat. Thank you.
Kevin McCallister's parents have split up. Now living with his mom, he decides to spend Christmas with his dad at the mansion of his father's rich girlfriend, Natalie. Meanwhile robber Marv Merchants, one of the villains from the first two movies, partners up with a new criminal named Vera to hit Natalie's mansion.
A fair go for all. We're going to invest in people and invest in infrastructure.
18-year-old Penny Cooper spent years pining for Johnny Sanders Jr., but when a mysterious musician shows up on the beach, Penny is torn.
Coal and our gas are important industries going forward. They are important to our exports and that will be part of our energy mix, but I am going to take real action on climate change.
Set between Episode II and III the Clone Wars is the first computer animated Star Wars film. Anakin and Obi Wan must find out who kidnapped Jabba the Hutts son and return him safely. The Seperatists will try anything to stop them and ruin any chance of a diplomatic agreement between the Hutt's and the Republic.
By all means.
Can a storybook view of romance survive in the real world?
First of all, when it comes to community sector, there was some wage improvement made for them when Labor was last in power. When it comes to aged care, let's see what the Royal Commission does.
Well, first of all, we've always made clear that whatever outcome occurs should be after consultation and negotiation with business including small business.
Complete strangers stranded at a remote desert motel during a raging storm soon find themselves the target of a deranged murderer. As their numbers thin out, the travelers begin to turn on each other, as each tries to figure out who the killer is.
I think the state election had a range of state issues, there is always a lesson there and we're not complacent. What we are doing nationally is we're not relying on the fact we're the Government.
No. What we will do though is we're going to pick up what Malcolm Turnbull proposed.
I haven't seen those remarks. But I think what you said in the preamble is correct.
We can afford to do this because we are making the tough economic decisions. We want multinationals to pay more tax.
A deaf woman is stalked by a psychotic killer in her secluded home.
We believe that anyone who comes here via people smuggler should be resettled in a third party nation, yes.
Well first of all, we don't accept that. This is the Government who's raised more taxes than anyone before us.
That's a really good point. First of all, the government loves to say that if we are not going to give a tax subsidy to a property investor, somehow that’s a property tax.
What our changes will mean is that it will be fairer, in terms of…
We need an independent national broadcaster.  
When a car bomb explodes on the American side of the U.S./Mexico border, Mexican drug enforcement agent Miguel Vargas begins his investigation, along with American police captain Hank Quinlan. When Vargas begins to suspect that Quinlan and his shady partner, Menzies, are planting evidence to frame an innocent man, his investigations into their possible corruption quickly put himself and his new bride, Susie, in jeopardy.
John Carter is a war-weary, former military captain who's inexplicably transported to the mysterious and exotic planet of Barsoom (Mars) and reluctantly becomes embroiled in an epic conflict. It's a world on the brink of collapse, and Carter rediscovers his humanity when he realizes the survival of Barsoom and its people rests in his hands.
Four Navy SEALs on a covert mission to neutralize a high-level al-Qaeda operative must make an impossible moral decision in the mountains of Afghanistan that leads them into an enemy ambush. As they confront unthinkable odds, the SEALs must find reserves of strength and resilience to fight to the finish.
No, not at all. Did you know Karl that since they have got into power they have doubled the national debt? And what we have also seen is that they've had deficit upon deficit.
Well, that's all happened under the current government and that's at the heart of this election. This government loves to talk about a strong economy but strong for who? Corporate profits are up 39 per cent but wages are only up 5 per cent.
I think that putting in a black and white legislation just puts it beyond doubt. I mean it's not me, it's the Government has had three different Prime Ministers in the time I've been Opposition Leader.
I think it would, be if they rush this, this will be an act of desperation, and what they want to do is try and assert decisions for which they don't have any responsibility after the next election if they are unsuccessful. 
Liquidated after discovering a corporate conspiracy, mild-mannered graphic artist Patience Phillips washes up on an island, where she's resurrected and endowed with the prowess of a cat -- and she's eager to use her new skills ... as a vigilante. Before you can say "cat and mouse," handsome gumshoe Tom Lone is on her tail.
Well first of all, you know that when the polls are good or bad, over five years, one month and 13 days, I haven't commented. I'm not going to start doing that now.
As America's stock of athletic young men is depleted during World War II, a professional all-female baseball league springs up in the Midwest, funded by publicity-hungry candy maker Walter Harvey (Garry Marshall). Competitive sisters Dottie Hinson (Geena Davis) and Kit Keller (Lori Petty) spar with each other, scout Ernie Capadino (Jon Lovitz) and grumpy has-been coach Jimmy Dugan (Tom Hanks) on their way to fame. Madonna and Rosie O'Donnell co-star as two of the sisters' teammates.
Well, first of all, the reason why we're doing it is there is no principle that says it is fair that a non-taxpayer gets a tax refund, a cash tax refund. But it is also not fair that we're spending $100 million a week paying non-taxpayers cash tax refunds.
Sorry about that Lisa.
lower the prices, take real action on climate change and ensure reliability. Batteries for households is the missing link.
Benjamin, a young German computer whiz, is invited to join a subversive hacker group that wants to be noticed on the world's stage.
Fiscal responsibility is important, I don't accept the Liberal argument that somehow Dan Andrews isn't fiscally responsible, they've made some very strong decisions. But we've been making hard economic reforms, my economic team of Chris Bowen and Jim Chalmers and the others, we've been making serious economic reform proposals to explain how we pay for our changes.
give in to the terrorists and sacrifice his family, or risk everything to uphold his principles - and the integrity of the nation.
Three high school students make an incredible discovery, leading to their developing uncanny powers beyond their understanding. As they learn to control their abilities and use them to their advantage, their lives start to spin out of control, and their darker sides begin to take over.
Well we are putting forward a series of recommendations. Changing the law on whistleblowers, changing the ability of companies to mask or hide what they are doing.
The evil Dr. Kochin uses the dragon balls to resurrect his mentor, Dr. Wheelo, in an effort to take over the world. Dr. Wheelo, his body having been destroyed by the avalanche that killed him fifty years before, desires the body of the strongest fighter in the world as his new vessel. Believing Roshi to be the world's strongest warrior, Dr. Kochin abducts Bulma and forces Roshi to surrender himself to save her. When Goku hears of their abduction, he goes to their rescue.
No. I just want to reassure Australians that despite the chaos and division that we saw last week in the Government and their inability to explain why they got rid of Malcolm Turnbull, I want to reassure Australians that what we're working on is positive reasons to vote for Labor.
We’re here to explain Labor’s great policies for this election. In particular, on this visit we’re talking about our exciting new ideas to improve health funding.
I like the principle, that's my answer. I think the principle of it.
Do we spend too much or we won't spend enough? The reality is for me, it's not - I don't view education and health -
No, he supports party policy and that is our party policy, a two-state solution - the right of Israel to exist behind secure borders but also recognising the legitimate aspirations of Palestinian people to their own country. 
What we want to do, and we think, without question, the preferred position will be to refer it off to the High Court - let's get resolution. I think that the Australian people hate the fact that the politicians can't guarantee if they're eligible to do their day job.
No. I have got to say that what concerns me is the waiting list that someone - the waiting time that someone has to get an elective surgery.
We'll have more to say about energy policy in the next couple of months but I think you're right. The Government did some work on the National Energy Guarantee and we are prepared to use that as part of our framework going forward.
Just hang on, hang on, gentlemen, ladies, we've a fair go at this press conference, perhaps I'll allow one more question and then we got to finish up, we've got to go to Tiwi.
It was a big time. I remember, of course, that two men got killed and another two were badly burnt.
Well I like Melissa. I think she is an accomplished woman and she was a good Member of Parliament when she was there and she's also worked overseas for the United Nations and refugees so, I like her.
Graced with a velvet voice, 21-year-old Violet Sanford heads to New York to pursue her dream of becoming a songwriter only to find her aspirations sidelined by the accolades and notoriety she receives at her "day" job as a barmaid at Coyote Ugly. The "Coyotes" as they are affectionately called tantalize customers and the media alike with their outrageous antics, making Coyote Ugly the watering hole for guys on the prowl.
Six short stories that explore the extremities of human behavior involving people in distress.
A fast-talking lawyer transforms his body and takes a vow of silence, not to be broken until he finds out who killed his wife and daughter and has his revenge.
These guys have got to stop focusing on themselves and do their day job. Now I'm sure that will lead to angry comments from the right wing of the Liberal Party but, if they think that what they've done in the last week has made Australia a better place they're sadly mistaken.
Ok, but I'm happy to contribute, though.
First of all, there are concerns that trade agreements provide some disadvantages as well as some advantages. I'm sympathetic to that complaint.
I don't see how that's possible. We'll have to see what the Government is thinking and they need to consult on the terms of reference.
But it's interesting, when you get off a plane at Tullamarine or at Mascot when you come from overseas, whilst you've enjoyed your visit overseas you know there's things about this country we're proud of, but we don't - when we get back to Australia - when we're overseas do we talk about our Medicare system or our tax deductions?
Grace, a compassionate young supervisor at a foster care facility, works with her boyfriend and colleague, Mason, to help at-risk teens. But when a new charge dredges up memories of her own troubled past, Grace's tough exterior begins eroding.
Good, that's good. There you go.
Yeah, I can, and I'm also fortunate to have people of the calibre of Senator Dodson here and I might give him a run on the ball, but I'll just make this. The current CDP's not working.
No, that's right. Someone's got to have the courage to stand up for the next generation, that's what we will do.
The hyperactive red-headed bird enters a turf war with a big city lawyer wanting to tear down his home in an effort to build a house to flip.
If you want to talk about bullying, how about that LNP trying to threaten Melissa Price's job?
That's Kevin's opinion. What I'm going to do is -
Listen, I think some of our time zone differences are absolutely crazy, but I also know that every state has got very long held views on this issue. So let's start with immigration and cost of living and wages, then when we have done all of that, let's get on to daylight savings.
Follows a young man named Albert and his horse, Joey, and how their bond is broken when Joey is sold to the cavalry and sent to the trenches of World War One. Despite being too young to enlist, Albert heads to France to save his friend.
No, I'm just saying that he can make decisions which affect them now, but appointing -  this is the Head of State of Australia. 
Well we want the subsidy to go to the parents and what we're going to say to child care operators though is that we don't want them ramping up the prices. I think this is important point to make.
Well we’ll release our figures before the election is concluded, but we’ve also made clear that we think we need to wind back what we give to negative gearing.
Yes, I thought the vote would be successful but what I realised on the morning of the vote being declared was the amount of pressure that a lot of people - LGBTQ people felt because what it was is this silly process which got the right outcome. It put a lot of pressure on our fellow Australians.
Well, changing the Constitution is very difficult. And in fact, this period of Australian history, unlike tenure of Prime Ministers, has been the longest period in which our Constitution hasn't been updated.
A group of surviving people take refuge in a shopping centre after the world has been over taken over by aggressive, flesh-eating zombies.
We need to see the final detail. Anyone who says that they can commit to something that they haven't seen is selling you something which isn't real.
That's good.
The dynamic duo of Chon Wang and Roy O'Bannon return for another crazy adventure. This time, they're in London to avenge the murder of Chon's father, but end up on an even bigger case. Chon's sister is there to do the same, but instead unearths a plot to kill the royal family. No one believes her, though, and it's up to Chon and Roy (who has romance on his mind) to prove her right.
Fletcher Reede is a fast-talking attorney and habitual liar. When his son Max blows out the candles on his fifth birthday he has just one wish - that his dad will stop lying for 24 hours. When Max's wish comes true, Fletcher discovers that his mouth has suddenly become his biggest liability.
No, I’ll tell you what my Labor colleagues they are adults, they can sign or not. Doesn't change our policy and our policy is as simple as this, we get that fossil fuel and coal is important to export and power generation but I promise Australian who are fed up with the dysfunction and disunity of the Government on climate change we need to act.
It doesn't matter if it's a union who comes to me or a business, an environmental activist. What I'll do if Prime Minister, is I'll work with all of those interests, but I'm not going to be the servant of any of those interests.
In the combustible action franchise's final installment, maverick detectives Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh square off against Asian mobster Wah Sing Ku, who's up to his neck in slave trading and counterfeit currency. With help from gumshoe Leo Getz and smart-aleck rookie cop Lee Butters, Riggs and Murtaugh aim to take down Ku and his gang.
After his wife dies, a blacksmith named Balian is thrust into royalty, political intrigue and bloody holy wars during the Crusades.
We think that there's something that we can work with there, yes. I mean part of the problem though, Barrie, and I think that we need to have this discussion, is that the market is dysfunctional in terms of energy prices.
We're not going back to the policies of the past. We're not going to have a carbon tax.
No. And the point about it is that she is a strong person.
Good morning.
Yes, for the vast bulk of people we are offering the same thing. You are quite right, for the three per cent of tax earners we still think we need a budget repair levy until 22-23.
When teen Sarah is forced to babysit Toby, her baby stepbrother, she summons Jareth the Goblin King to take him away. When he is actually kidnapped, Sarah is given just thirteen hours to solve a labyrinth and rescue him.
Hard-to-crack ex-CIA man, Jack Byrnes and his wife, Dina head for the warmer climes of Florida to meet son-in-law-to-be, Greg Focker's parents. Unlike their happily matched offspring, the future in-laws find themselves in a situation of opposites that definitely do not attract.
Frank Drebin is persuaded out of retirement to go undercover in a state prison. There he is to find out what top terrorist, Rocco, has planned for when he escapes. Frank's wife, Jane, is desperate for a baby.. this adds to Frank's problems. A host of celebrities at the Academy awards ceremony are humiliated by Frank as he blunders his way trying to foil Rocco.
The place would erupt if if they rolled him. 
Well I think this is a Government to be honest, who have stopped governing. They view everything through the prism of beating Labor and winning the election.
An uptight by-the-book cop must protect the widow of a drug boss from crooked cops and gunmen.
When Earth astronaut Capt. Chuck Baker arrives on Planet 51 -- a world reminiscent of American suburbia circa 1950 -- he tries to avoid capture, recover his spaceship and make it home safely, all with the help of an empathetic little green being.
We want to make sure that our defence spending is up to 2 per cent of our national economy. We are committed to making sure that we properly fund our national security agencies and the Federal Police.
Well you would love to know what business Tim is in, he obviously is having some business difficulties already, but let me just say this on climate change. First of all, taking action on climate change is good for the economy.
We're going to change the laws and we're going to put the resources to enforce the laws. If you want to crack down on multinationals and very, very wealthy people not paying their tax, who do you trust? The Liberal Party who spent most of their time in government wanting to give them tax cuts, or the Labor Party who wants to properly fund our schools and hospitals? When it comes to this, there's only one party you can trust to clean it up and that's the Labor Party.
Sure.
Well I don't know the answer to that, but I'm not sure that Mr Morrison does. With Mr Turnbull announcing that he'll step down, he won't be back in Parliament, which means that the Government only has 75 MPs out of 150 and one of those is the Speaker, so that means they have 74.
We get into the adjectives game, what I can say is it is too low.
Set on an island off the coast of New England in the summer of 1965, Moonrise Kingdom tells the story of two twelve-year-olds who fall in love, make a secret pact, and run away together into the wilderness. As various authorities try to hunt them down, a violent storm is brewing off-shore – and the peaceful island community is turned upside down in more ways than anyone can handle.
Yeah, I don't know where the Government thinks they get the money they spend from. They don't just magic it up through their sheer genius.
Lara Croft ventures to an underwater temple in search of the mythological Pandora's Box but, after securing it, it is promptly stolen by the villainous leader of a Chinese crime syndicate. Lara must recover the box before the syndicate's evil mastermind uses it to construct a weapon of catastrophic capabilities.
Well, if you think we're catching, if you think that we are hearing all of the insider deals that go on well I don’t share that view. Labor is going to pursue and make sure we restore faith in institutions, not just in the government.
Leigh, you know there's no plans for 60 per cent or indeed 50 per cent, but I agree that what we need to do is eventually lighten the burden of income tax across all the levels. But to be fair, we already are offering 3.
cement, steel, aluminium and other sectors. We have created a $300 million dollar fund to help them invest in new technology.
It was just madness. My view is that people's relationships are their own business.
Yes. There's already 50,000 batteries installed around Australia.
I have only read what you read. Mr Assange is entitled to his day in court.
Leigh, let's see how we go in the election first. We haven't won and we haven't lost.
A newly married couple who, in the process of starting a family, learn many of life's important lessons from their trouble-loving retriever, Marley. Packed with plenty of laughs to lighten the load, the film explores the highs and lows of marriage, maturity and confronting one's own mortality, as seen through the lens of family life with a dog.
Well, we have a look around the world and the Americans have been able to make some big breakthroughs in some financial scandals by basically encouraging some of the people involved to be able to come forward and get a reward. What our plan means for people who are doing the wrong thing is that just be aware of the person next to you because they might just want the reward and not put up with corruption.
Jigsaw and his apprentice Amanda are dead. Now, upon the news of Detective Kerry's murder, two seasoned FBI profilers, Agent Strahm and Agent Perez, arrive in the terrified community to assist the veteran Detective Hoffman in sifting through Jigsaw's latest grisly remains and piecing together the puzzle. However, when SWAT Commander Rigg is abducted and thrust into a game, the last officer untouched by Jigsaw has but ninety minutes to overcome a series of demented traps and save an old friend...or face the deadly consequences.
It's so dishonest this debate. It is so dishonest - 